
Belarus: What Does Future Hold For Gazprom's Deal? 
RFE/RL Sites by Language Top Stories: Berlin Wall , islamic state , Ukraine Blog , . 
Shqip
evropaelire.org , OOOU
iraqhurr.org , OOOOOOO
azatutyun.am , DDDN
radioerkenli.com , AzErbaycanca
azadliq.org , DDNNDDD
radiomarsho.com , BiH/Hrv/Srb/CG
slobodnaevropa.org , DDDDNNNDDN
svaboda.org , . 
OOU
da.azadiradio.org , aaaaaaa
radiotavisupleba.ge , English
RFE/RL Regional
rferl.org 
Afghanistan
gandhara.rferl.org , DDNDN
khutynygharadio.com , ODDDO
azattyq.org , KNNDND
azattyk.org , DDDDDDDNDD
makdenes.org , . 
UOOU
OUOOUOOOU
pa.azadiradio.org 
UOUOOOU
mashaalradio.org , UOOOU
radiofarda.com , RomAneEte
europalibera.org , DDODDO
ozodi.org , DDNDN
azatliq.org 
QArAm
ktat.krymr.com , Turkmen
azathabar.com , DDDDDND
ozodlik.org , . 
DDNDNDNNDD
radiosvoboda.org 
DNDD
ua.krymr.com , DNNNDDD
DDNNDN
svoboda.org 
DDDDNNNDD
rus.azattyq.org 
DNDDDDN
rus.azatutyun.am 
DDDNDDDDDDD
radioazadlyg.org 
DNNDDN
ekhokavkaza.com 
DDNDDDDN
rus.azattyk.org 
DDDDDDDNNDD
rus.ozodi.org 
DNND
ru.krymr.com 
DDNDDDN
www.currenttime.tv , . 
How to Listen
Radio Free Europe / Radio Liberty broadcasts in 28 languages. Most of our programs are available on FM and medium-wave frequencies of local radio stations in the countries of our broadcast area. If you are having problems listening to programs on the internet, please read our technical help document.
RadioFreeEurope/RadioLiberty 
Mobile, . Russia 
Russia
Tatar-Bashkir
North Caucasus
'Russian Talib' Pleads Not Guilty
Chechen Supreme Court Targets Jailed Activist's Lawyer
, . , Middle East 
Iran 
Iraq
IAEA: 'No Progress' On Iran Nuke Probe
Senior Iraqi Police Commander Killed
, . , Central Asia 
Kazakhstan
Kyrgyzstan
Tajikistan
Turkmenistan
Uzbekistan
Russian Media Suggests Moscow 'Grand Theft Auto' Gang Linked To IS, Central Asia
Erdogan In Turkmenistan For First Time As Turkish President
, . , Caucasus 
Armenia 
Azerbaijan
Georgia
Armenia To Reestablish Interior Ministry
The Georgian Political Shuffle: A Chat With The Experts
, . , South Asia 
Afghanistan
Pakistan
'Russian Talib' Pleads Not Guilty
Pakistani Islamic Leader Condemns Killing Of Christian Couple
, . , Balkans 
Bosnia
Kosovo
Macedonia
Montenegro
Serbia
Belgrade-Zagreb Flights To Resume
Protected By Riot Police, Gays March Peacefully In Conservative Montenegro 
, . , Eastern Europe 
Belarus
Moldova
Ukraine
U.S. Rapper Snoop Dogg 'Loves Belarus'
Funeral In Donetsk For Teenagers Shelled While Playing Football 
, . , Listen, Press Room 
Use Our Content
Contact RFE/RL
Press Releases
RFE/RL Experts
Journalists In Trouble
The Rundown
, . , About 
Mission Statement
History / Archives
Internships
Governance
Havel Fellowship
Fast Facts & FAQ
Visit RFE/RL
Jobs
, . , . Saturday, November 08, 2014 Audio menu Internet TV 
Belarus 
Belarus: What Does Future Hold For Gazprom's Deal? 
Jonathan Stern (Courtesy Photo)
January 5, 2007 (RFE/RL) -- Despite Russia's obvious gains in its December 31 deal with Belarus, which more than doubles the price of natural gas and secures a 50-percent stake in Belarus's gas-transit network Beltranshaz, there are no assurances the agreement will work as Russia hopes. Who has the advantage, Minsk or Moscow, when it comes to profiting from Russian pipes transiting Belarusian territory? And what does the future hold for Gazprom's other CIS clients? RFE/RL spoke toJonathan Stern, the director of gas research at Britain's Oxford Institute for Energy Studies. 
Print , Share: , . 
Tweet, Follow @RFERL , . 
January 05, 2007 
RFE/RL: Why has Gazprom received a 50-percent stake in Beltranshaz, rather than 49 percent or 51 percent? How will that partnership work?
Jonathan Stern: A 50-percent stake in Beltranshaz means you are an equal partner in the operation and you at least have the right to be the co-operator of the pipeline. The key issue here for gas utility is that you want to know what is happening to the gas in the pipeline. It probably wouldn't have been politically appropriate for Gazprom to have more than a 50-percent stake; with less than a 50-percent stake it wouldn't have had the right to ask to be co-operator.
RFE/RL: So the share size wasn't a point of contention? Was Gazprom looking specifically for 50 percent?
Stern: I think it was probably a very contentious negotiating point. I mean, negotiations over the first investment in the pipeline network as a whole started before 2000. Just the negotiation on the valuation [of Beltranshaz] has taken over three years. So the whole thing has been extremely contentious.
RFE/RL: In a situation where Russia controls half the pipeline but Belarus controls the territory it runs over, who has the upper hand?
Stern: It depends who operates the pipeline. Pipelines have operators -- in other words, they have companies who actually look at what goes in, what comes out, open valves, close valves. Let me give you an example. Why has there never been any leakage or siphoning reported from the pipeline in Moldova? Answer: Gazprom has a majority stake in Moldovagaz, which operates the pipeline. Gazprom has no stake whatsoever in the Ukrainian network, and has had no stake in Beltranshaz. Hence the importance of being at least a co-operator of the pipeline.
RFE/RL: So do you anticipate the 50-percent stake is enough to ensure things go smoothly for Gazprom in Belarus?
Stern: That is their intention. The problem I think they'll face is that -- as far has been reported in this very strange negotiation, that finished at two minutes to midnight -- we don't really fully understand what has happened. You can read a lot of different things in the press. The official documents aren't, at least to me, very clear about what's happened. So I'm hoping things will run smoothly, but I'm not sure.
RFE/RL: Are there other CIS countries in addition to Moldova where Gazprom can be confident its shipments are reaching their intended clients in full?
Stern: Only one. The Armenian pipeline network, where Gazprom has a majority stake in ArmRosgazprom.
RFE/RL: Some people have argued that Gazprom, by raising Belarus's gas prices, has answered critics who said it was using energy prices as a political tool against its detractors within the CIS. Belarus was a loyal ally and yet is now facing the possibility of paying European-level prices by 2011. Is Gazprom being ruthless, or simply pragmatic
Stern: In current circumstances, from what we understand, everybody including people in Russia will be facing European prices by 2011. There is no doubt about that. The decision was made in November that Russian domestic gas prices would be at European levels at 2011. But what is very clear is that whatever subsidy that has existed during and since the Soviet Union is finished, and the maximum time that anybody can expect -- and in fact Belarus is probably the longest one -- is 2011, when at the same time as Russian industrial and power-generation gas customers, it will be phased out.
The next question is: Was it, and is it, a political price? For me, political prices finished in around 2002-03, with the recognition first that Gazprom and the Russian state could no longer afford them and secondly, whatever political reason was being given, it wasn't working. And the decision was taken, and that's why they were prepared to go through the huge amount of pain in January 2006 and the huge amount of reputational damage caused by cutting off Ukraine for two days. But most people who talk about political prices are comparing one number in one country with another number in another country. And you can't do that. You can't make any sense of that because all the numbers are different for different reasons. It's a very, very complicated process.
RFE/RL: The European Union's Gas Coordination Council, during its January 4 meeting in Brussels, appeared certain Russian gas supplies to Europe would be secure in 2007. But the meeting was called before Russia and Belarus resolved their dispute, when the EU was facing the possibility of a cutoff. How nervous were European officials watching this standoff between Moscow and Minsk?
Stern: The problem clearly made them very nervous. And because they were caught very badly last year -- when they were all on their holidays, and they didn't come back and do anything until the problem was fixed -- they wanted to be clear that they were on top of it this time. 
RFE/RL: What kind of relationship do you predict Gazprom will have with its CIS neighbors during the next 5-10 years?
Stern: I would say that in 5-10 years' time, Gazprom will have most of the same clients it currently has, except not in the Caucasus. In 5-10 years' time, it won't be exporting any gas to Azerbaijan and Georgia, and probably not to Armenia either. My guess is that it will be exporting gas to most of the other CIS countries. I doubt whether in such a short time frame as 10 years they will have created any other gas options. But Gazprom sales will be much, much smaller than they are today because the principal impact of price increases is demand decreases. And what these countries are going to find, just like Russia's going to find, is that when you put the prices up to economic levels, you'll see demand crash.
RFE/RL Interviews 
A special page devoted to RFE/RL's interviews with newsmakers and other leading figures from across our broadcast region. Print , Share: , . Tweet, Follow @RFERL , . 
You Might Also Like 
Ukraine Holds Politically Charged 'Dictation' Contest 
U.S. Rapper Snoop Dogg 'Loves Belarus' 
Who's In, Who's Out: Republicans Take Over Top U.S. Foreign-Policy Committees 
Most Popular 
Most Viewed Live Blog: Ukraine In Crisis , Putin Tops Obama Again In 'Forbes' Power Ranking, Russian Actor, Kremlin Critic Found Dead, Kyiv Says 200 Rebels Killed, Russian Tanks, Troops Cross Over Border, Iranians React To Republican Victory in U.S. Elections, Poland Prepares For Russian 'Confrontation' In New Defense Strategy, Despite Nuclear Talks, U.S. Seen As 'Great Satan' In Iran, Putin Forever, U.S. Rapper Snoop Dogg 'Loves Belarus', Meet The Wisconsin Army Vet Who's Fighting With The Kurds Against IS , Most E-Mailed Putin Forever, Russian Nationalists March On, Under Kremlin's Wary Gaze, Monument To Apple's Jobs Removed In Russia After CEO Comes Out, Five Takeaways From Eastern Ukraine's Separatist Vote, Spokeswoman For EU's Foreign Policy Chief Married To Gazprom Lobbyist, Nationalists March In Moscow While Kremlin Celebrates 'Unity Day' , EU To Appoint Legal Expert To Investigate Kosovo Mission, Chechen Supreme Court Targets Jailed Activist's Lawyer, Kadyrov: 'Most Chechens In Syria Grew Up In Western Countries' , Ukraine's Poroshenko To Meet Security Chiefs, Most-Viewed Multimedia Russian Nationalists March As Kremlin Celebrates 'Unity Day' , Top Shots , NATO Conducts 'Iron Sword' Exercises In Lithuania , Looking Back: 1979 U.S. Embassy Siege In Tehran , The 'Offensive' Work Of Belarus's HoodGraff , American Peshmerga Fighter: 'Let's Cripple IS' , RFE/RL Video Roundup - Nov. 3 , RFE/RL Video Roundup - Nov 6 , RFE/RL Video Roundup - Nov. 4 , RFE/RL Video Roundup - Nov. 5 , Editors' Picks 
Uncomfortable Bedfellows?
Spokeswoman For Top EU Official Married To Gazprom Lobbyist 
Power Vertical Podcast
The World According To Putin 
Under The Black Flag
Moscow 'Grand Theft Auto' Gang Linked To IS, Central Asia 
Explainer
Putin aInsidera Gennady Timchenkoas U.S. Footprint 
Infographic
25 Years Later: The European Revolutions 
Ukraine Live Blog
Follow The Crisis In Real Time 
Latest Blog Posts 
Persian Letters
Dear Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Khameneia 
Tracking Islamic State
Foreign Extremists Blamed For Inspiring Saudis To Join IS 
The Power Vertical
Podcast: The World According To Putin 
Tracking Islamic State
In Mosul, An Activist Describes Despair And Terror Amid IS Repression 
Tracking Islamic State
Russian Media Suggests Moscow 'Grand Theft Auto' Gang Linked To IS, Central Asia 
Services:
PodcastRSSMail SubscribtionMobile 
Our Coverage Area
Russia, Tatar-Bashkir, North Caucasus, Iran, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, . 
Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Balkans, Belarus, Moldova, Ukraine, Marketing & Affiliates, . 
Browse
News, From Our Bureaus, Features, Blogs, Multimedia, History / Archives, RFE/RL Newsline (Jan 2000-May 2008), Analytical Reports (Jan 2000-June 2008), . 
Quick Hits
About, Press Room, Contact, Terms of Use, Privacy, Site Map, Subscribe, RFE/RL Jobs, Broadcasting Board of Governors, . 
Social Networks
Del.icio.us, Digg, Facebook, Google Bookmarks, Newsvine, Reddit, StumbleUpon, Twitter, . 
Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty 2014 RFE/RL, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

