
Legislative process in Russia Encyclopedia of Russian Law
Nailing bribery becomes business. J. Vermin It is now possible to buy freedom J. Vermin Political competition and rotation of power turn into a farce J. Vermin Russia is ready to buy new technologies E. Istomina Front page, Business, Society, Obiter Dictum, Legal Translator, Encyclopedia, Lawyers, e-Wire, RSS, . 
Legislative process in Russia.
Submitted by Russian Law Online on Tue, 01/13/2009 - 19:00 in Legislative process, Political system and Legislation General, . The legislative process in Russia includes three hearings in the State Duma, then approvals by the Council of the Federation and the President. 
Laws adopted by the State Duma are passed to the Council of the Federation for review. A federal law is considered passed by the Council of the Federation if more than half of its deputies vote for it or if within 14 days it has not been considered. In the event the State Duma disagrees with the decision of the Federation Council, a federal law is considered adopted if, in the second voting, at least two-thirds of the total number of deputies to the State Duma vote for it. Then, however, laws must be considered by the Council of the Federation. These are laws that deal with the issues of the federal budget, federal taxes and duties, financial, monetary, credit and customs regulations and money emission; ratification and denunciation of the international treaties; the status and protection of the state border and issues of war and peace.
The adopted federal law is sent to the president. If the president rejects a federal law the State Duma and the Federation Council again consider the law. If, during the second hearings, the federal law is approved in its earlier draft by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the total number of deputies of the Council of the Federation and the State Duma, it must be signed by the president.
In encyclopedia
Sources of Russian law., Russia: State structure., Political system of Russia., . 
Also may be of interest
Short Lives of Codes, . 
About RussianLawOnline.Com Media directory Contact us Terms and Conditions Copyright The Legal Communications Ltd. All rights reserved. 
")); //--> ")); //--> 
