
Rice tells Russia not to use energy as weapon
Jump to Navigation 
Friday, November 07, 2014 As of 10:43 PM EST
U.S. Edition
Australia Edition, China Edition, India Edition, Italy Edition, Japan Edition, U.K. Edition, U.S. Edition, . Subscribe , Make IBT your homepage, . , . Home, Politics, Economy, Markets / Finance, Companies, Technology, Media and Culture, Sports, Video, . Markets / Finance 
Rice tells Russia not to use energy as weapon
By IBTimes Staff Reporter @ibtimes on October 22 2007 2:15 PM 0 , 0 , 0 , 0 , . 
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice lambasted Moscow on Monday for using its oil and gas wealth as a "political weapon" and said democratic reforms would strengthen Russia's ties with Washington.
In a speech on the state of U.S.-Russia relations, Rice conceded there was a "certain distance" between Washington and Moscow, but she rejected suggestions there had been a return to the frosty ties of the Cold War era.
Russia is a key energy supplier in Europe but it has reduced or even cut supplies over a range of disputes with neighboring countries. For example, this month, it threatened to reduce supplies in a dispute with Kiev over payments.
"We respect Russia's interests, but no interest is served if Russia uses its great wealth, its oil and gas wealth, as a political weapon or that treats its independent neighbors as part of some old sphere of influence, " said Rice, an expert on the Soviet Union.
The former Soviet Union broke up in the 1990s and Rice said Russia should not view that as a threat to its own stability.
"Nor do we believe that Europe's unity and liberty since 1991 is unjust. The freedom of people to choose their own governments and the freedom of governments to make their own way is a source of security and not a threat to it, " said Rice, who was in Moscow little over a week ago.
"Russia has regained some of its strength and its cohesion. But at times, perhaps reflecting the views of the 1990s, we fear that this is sometimes seen in zero sum terms of another era, " she added.
The United States and other Western governments are concerned about democracy and human rights under President Vladimir Putin, who has consolidated the Kremlin's power.
STRONGER JUDICIARY, MEDIA
Rice urged Russia to strengthen the independence of its institutions, such as the judiciary and the media, and said such a move would improve relations.
"We want Russia to be strong, strong in 21st century terms, not just with a strong center but with strong, independent institutions, an independent judiciary and legislature, and an independent civil society and media and vibrant nongovernmental sector" she said.
Rice, who visited Russia this month along with Defense Secretary Robert Gates, said she hoped Moscow could work more cooperatively on trying to resolve the Kosovo problem.
"We hope that Russia will also realize that we can work together for a Kosovo solution that contributes to peace in Europe, " she added.
She called for a greater understanding between the United States and Russia and sought to play down talks of a new Cold War.
"It's not to say that we don't have differences, we do. Yet Russia is not the Soviet Union, " she said.
Russia-U.S. relations have been strained in recent months, particularly over Moscow's objection to U.S. plans to build a missile defense system in Europe.
But Rice pointed to closer cooperation with Moscow on tackling North Korea's nuclear program and on the Middle East.
While there were differences on tactics on how to get Tehran to give up their nuclear weapons program, she said Moscow and Washington both shared a common goal of preventing Iran from getting an atomic bomb. 
The United States is pushing hard for a third U.N. Security Council sanctions resolution against Iran while Russia wants to give Tehran more time and is balking at more punitive measures.
Submit Correction , 0 , 0 , 0 , . Join the Discussion 0 , 0 , 0 , . 
IBTIMES TV
more 
MuteUnmute
Misfit Shine Disappoints 
Search More News Latest News Markets / Finance China October Exports Up 11.6rom Previous Year , Politics Gang Members Confess To Killing 43 Missing Mexican Students , Politics Forget Boehner, Now There's A Biden Problem: Report , Politics Betting Odds For 2016: Clinton And Bush Out In Front , . Most Read, Most Shared, . 1 New Bill Watterson Comic Doesn't Include Calvin Or Hobbes 9.8k Shares , . , 2 Brazilas $185M Plan To Avoid US Internet Spying 9.5k Shares , . , 3 Utah Elects First Black Republican Congresswoman 6.5k Shares , . , 4 Mistral Helicopter Ships Could End Up In Canada 2.1k Shares , . , 5 Russia Test-Fires Intercontinental Missile From Nuclear Submarine 835 Shares , . , 6 How To Find Out Where You Vote 362 Shares , . , 7 Your Guide To The New York City Marathon 282 Shares , . , . Follow Us , . Please enter a valid email , Like us , Follow us , Join us , Full site feed , . Home, Politics, Economy, Markets / Finance, Companies, Technology, Media and Culture, Sports, Video, . 
Corporate
About Us, Leadership, Advertise with Us, Media Kit, Contact, Careers, Terms of Service, Privacy, IBT Media, Press Releases, Syndication, . 
Editions
Australia, China, India, Italy, Japan, U.K., U.S., . Back to Top, Back to Home, Full Site, . 
Copyright 2014 IBT Media Inc. All Rights Reserved.
, . Search , Home, Politics View All, Africa, Asia Pacific, Europe, Middle East, The Americas, US, . , Economy View All , Africa, Asia Pacific, Europe, Middle East, The Americas, US, . , Markets / Finance View All , Commodities, ETF, Financial Services, Forex, Gold, Precious Metals, Market Data, . , Companies View All , Autos, Basic Materials, Energy, Manufacturing, Real Estate, Transportation, Retail/Consumer Goods, . , Tech / Sci View All, Companies, Mobile, Computers, Games, Internet, Social Media, Science, . , Media and Culture View All , Art, Books, Education, Entertainment, Industry News, People, Travel, . , Sports View All , NFL, MLB, NBA, NHL, Tennis, Golf, Soccer, . , Opinion View All, Analysis, Fighting Words, SportsNet, . , TV, . The Berlin Wall In Song Betting Odds For 2016: Clinton And Bush Likeliest Kilauea Lava Flow Halted For Now Yemen Has A New Government Amid The Chaos Forget Boehner, Now There's A Biden Problem: Report Photo ID Laws Reduced Voting By 4.4pan class="overlay article-overlay"> 
More Politics 
Africa, Asia Pacific, Europe, . Middle East, The Americas, US, . The Labor Force Participation Rate That Refuses To Rise October Jobs Growth Below Expectations But Strong Not Enough Jobs US Jobs Data To Show Economy's Resilience Consumer Credit Climbs To $15.9B In September Week Ahead: Economists Eye Walmart, Macy's 
More Economy 
Africa, Asia Pacific, Europe, . Middle East, The Americas, US, . Keystone XL Presses On US Regulators To Join UK In Forex Fines For Banks ECB Holds Rates While Waiting For Stimulus To Sink In Companies Sign Secret Tax Deals With Luxembourg: Report Most Wall Street Firms Still See Fed Rate Hike By June 2015: Poll Iger Loves The Bundle, Even If Sports Fans Donat 
More Markets / Finance 
Commodities, ETF, Financial Services, Forex, . Gold, Precious Metals, Market Data, . Twitter To Open Office In Hong Kong Takata Hid Air Bag Problems For Years: Report Belgium's 'ISIS Chocolates' Changes Name To aLibeerta Bank of America Slashes Q3 Earnings, Shares Fall A New Battle Over Regulation Of For-Profit Colleges Tootsie Roll Warns Of Ebola Risk 
More Companies 
Autos, Basic Materials, Energy, Manufacturing, . Real Estate, Transportation, Retail/Consumer Goods, . First Microsoft Lumia Lands Tuesday, May Be Budget Phone Twitter IPO Anniversary: Where To Next? Game Makers' Search For The Next Big Thing Often Elusive LivingSocial Cuts 400 Jobs: Daily Deals Dying? Home Depot Customers At Risk For Phishing Attacks GT Advanced Court Documents Unsealed 
More Technology 
Companies, Mobile, Computers, Games, . Internet, Social Media, Science, . Women's Group Teams With Twitter To Fight Online Harassment 'The Hunger Games': Play In London Summer 2016 Why Veterans Day 2014 Falls On A Tuesday Victoria's Secret Changes Its 'Perfect Body' Ads After Change.org Protest Alcohol, Drugs Not Factor In Robin Williams Suicide Thousands Still Missing In Mexico Drug War Violence 
More Media & Culture 
Art, Books, Education, Entertainment, . Industry News, People, Travel, . Djokovic, Federer Duel For No.1 At Tour Finals Bears Look To Salvage Season Against Packers Buckeyes, Spartans Fight To Stay In Playoff Contention Liverpool Face Struggle To Get Chelsea Revenge Energy, Not Weight Loss, Affecting LeBron Khan-Alexander Winner Could Get Mayweather 
More Sports 
NFL, MLB, NBA, NHL, . Tennis, Golf, Soccer, World Cup, . Miley Cyrus' New Short Film Features Drug Use And NSFW Content Honoring The Man Who Helped Develop Kevlar And Saved Countless Lives Should We Be Able To Pay For Different Levels Of Quality In Our Medicines? Brandeis University Needs To Take Its 'Core Principles' Seriously - Letter One More Thing On The Apple Keynote: Why No Diversity? 'Bang Bang' Video: Sexually Empowering Or Objectifying Women? 
More Opinion 
Analysis, Fighting Words, . SportsNet, . Week Ahead: Economists Eye Retail Sales, Wal-Mart Earnings A Step Back For Formula One Hands On With The Aluminum Body F-150 Misfit Shine Disappoints Hands On With the New Xperia Z3v From Sony How To Use Apple Pay On Your iPhone 6 [VIDEO] 

