
BBC NEWS Europe Russia wields the energy weapon
Home , News , Sport , Radio , TV , Weather , Languages , . 
[an error occurred while processing this directive] Low graphics Accessibility help 
, One-Minute World News 
, News services 
Your news when you want it 
, News Front Page Africa Americas Asia-Pacific Europe Middle East South Asia UK Business Health Science & Environment Technology Entertainment Also in the news ----------------- Video and Audio ----------------- Programmes Have Your Say In Pictures Country Profiles Special Reports RELATED BBC SITES SPORT, WEATHER, ON THIS DAY, EDITORS' BLOG, . Languages Russian, Albanian, Serbian, Turkish, Ukrainian, More, . , Last Updated: Tuesday, 14 February 2006, 00:12 GMT 
E-mail this to a friend , Printable version , Russia wields the energy weapon , By Emma Simpson 
BBC News, Moscow , When Russia turned off the gas to Ukraine, it sent shivers across Europe where customers are increasingly dependent on Russia to keep warm. 
A Baltic pipeline will open up a new gas link to Europe , It also set alarm bells ringing as politicians began to wonder if Russia could be relied on as an energy supplier. 
Russia has vast reserves of energy. It is sitting on more than a fifth of the world's known reserves of natural gas and has at least 75 billion barrels of oil - about 7f total world reserves. 
But how much political power is this abundance of hydrocarbons bringing as well? 
Russia has a significant amount of clout that derives from these statistics, says Cliff Kupchan, an energy analyst with the Eurasia Group. 
"I would describe the mindset right now among the Russian political elite as infused with 'petroconfidence'. The problem is that petroconfidence can lead to an overstep. I think that Russia did that in Ukraine." 
Charging full market prices was Russia's legitimate right, a move that is part of a strategy to end gas subsidies to former Soviet republics. 
, It is up to Western countries: To rely even more on the Middle East and Africa or to build stronger relations with Russia 
Andrey Kokoshin 
Russian MP , But it also showed Moscow flexing its political muscles, as Andrey Kokoshin, the head of the committee on CIS affairs at the Russian parliament, admits. 
"Of course it is somehow connected with politics, " he says. 
"If the Ukrainian political elite, at least some part of it, decided to go with the West and not to integrate in the post-Soviet space, why should we subsidise the Ukrainian government?" 
Political weapon 
Could Russia play the energy card in a similar way with its most important customers in the West? Analysts think not. Using energy as a weapon is a dangerous card to play. 
, Russia: Energy overview Gas reserves change lives , Saudi Arabia tried this tactic in the early 1970s in an effort to pressure America and the West on Israel, but this oil embargo backfired as it ultimately drove Western customers to look for other sources of oil. 
Russia's political elite are all too aware of the risks. According to Cliff Kupchan, the Kremlin is using energy in different ways, depending on the arena. 
"In Russia's near abroad, or post-Soviet space, it has used energy as a political weapon to achieve political goals. Ukraine is the key example. I think they have much more respect for the need to maintain stability with foreign partners, particularly Western Europe." 
Dominant partner? 
It is a mutually dependent relationship. Western Europe gets a quarter of its gas from Russia. It, in turn, is currently earning $25bn (14bn) a year from the trade. 
It was not that long ago that Russia had to go cap in hand to the West for money. Now it is being courted by big, energy-hungry countries everywhere. 
"Russia can accept the offers coming in from London, Frankfurt or New York - or from Beijing, Hong Kong or New Delhi. It is up to Western countries: to rely even more on dependence from the Middle East and Africa, or to build stronger relations with Russia, " says Andrey Kokoshin. 
By dint of the size of its reserve and its strategic location facing East and West, Russia could - if it continues on its current political path - become the dominant energy partner to the rest of the world. 
Energy will bring Russia considerable political power. The world is waiting to see how that power is going to be used. 
E-mail this to a friend , Printable version , ENERGY IN THE UK 
KEY STORIES 
Oil 'bonanza' 
Venezuela spreads its wings on the back of high oil prices 
Indian demand sparks fears Chinese energy hunger Sugar crop fuels Brazil's cars Fall and rise of Brazil's biofuel Mining nuclear fuel Qatar's gas boom Russia's energy weapon The curse of Nigeria's oil Patagonia's winds of change Japan road-tests hydrogen car Pioneers look to solar future 
BACKGROUND and ANALYSIS 
Energy gap: Crisis for humanity? Nuclear Europe: Country guide Global energy guide 
YOUR VIEWS How will we fuel the future? 
RUSSIA GAS ROW 
LATEST NEWS 
Chechens freeze as gas is cut off Russia blamed for 'gas sabotage' Ukrainian cabinet in gas crisis 'Lessons' for EU from gas crisis Ukraine and Russia in gas deal 
FEATURES AND ANALYSIS 
Street protest 
Georgians blame President Putin personally for their country's energy crisis 
Kiev power games Russia takes a stand Q and A: Ukraine government crisis Energy and power play Q and A: Ukraine gas row 
BACKGROUND 
Where Europe gets its gas from Gazprom's global ambitions 
HAVE YOUR SAY 
What effect will deal have? 
RELATED INTERNET LINKS: IEA Ukraine parliament The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites 
TOP EUROPE STORIES Credit Suisse offices are raided 
French row over Bastille parade 
EU gives backing to BA alliance 
, PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
E-mail news, Mobiles, Alerts, News feeds, Podcasts, . BBC Copyright Notice MMIX , Most Popular Now 116, 057 pages were read in the last minute.";, Back to top ^^, . Help, Privacy and cookies policy, News sources, About the BBC, Contact us, . 
')); } /*]]>*/ ')); } /*]]>*/ ")); } /*]]>*/ ')); } /*]]>*/ ')); } /*]]>*/ ')); } /*]]>*/ 

