
Accounts Chamber of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Accounts Chamber of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Russia , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Russia , Constitution, Law, . Impeachment, Mental Health Law, Russian Criminal Code, Tax Code, . , Presidency President: Vladimir Putin, . Presidential Administration, Security Council, State Council, . , Executive Prime Minister: Dmitry Medvedev, . Government, Cabinet (14th) , . , Legislature Federal Assembly, Federation Council, State Duma, . , . , Judiciary Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, Prosecutor General, Supreme Court of Arbitration, Legal system, . , Elections Presidential elections, Legislative elections, Central Election Commission, Electoral geography, Political parties, . , Foreign relations United Nations, ArabaIsraeli conflict, . , Related topics Administrative divisions, Federal subjects, Regional parliaments, Armed forces, Martial law, . , Civic Chamber, Accounts Chamber , E-Government, Opposition, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , Accounts Chamber of the Russian Federation (Russian: DNNNDDN DDDDND DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD ) is the parliamentary body of the financial control in the Russian Federation.
Contents
1 History , 2 Status , 3 Structure , 4 See also , 5 References , . 
History [ edit ] 
The prototype of the Accounts Chamber of the Russian Federation - a Chamber-collegium established by Peter I in 1718 for the management of state taxes, and some sectors of the state economy. Prior to that time in the treasury of Russian tsars was a mess. Ideologue and founder of Court of Auditors was Petr Lukich Aksenov . In 1719, he introduced in Russian government the written balance of income and expenditure of money in the state treasury, and gave the Emperor a weekly report of the motion of money. Moreover, Petr Aksenov defines form of accounting for the Chambers-collegium and teach it local clerk and officials from all Russia. In 1725, the Senate determined Peter Aksenov kamerirom, and in 1731 Secretary.
From 1811 to 1918 in Russian Empore exists office of State Comptroller. Then it was replaced by People's Commissariat of same name and in 1920 by Rabkrin
Status [ edit ] 
Status of the Accounting Chamber of the Russian Federation by the Constitution of Russia and the Federal Law "On the Accounts Chamber of the Russian Federation", according to which the Accounts Chamber of the Russian Federation is a permanent body of financial control, which is formed by the Federal Assembly, the bicameral parliament of Russia and accountable to him. The work of The Chamber is guided by federal law, carries out the assignments of the Federation Council and the State Duma. As part of its objectives Chamber has the organizational and functional independence. It is the supervisory body of the Federal Assembly, but is not a structural unit and formally applies to the legislative, executive or judicial branches of government.
Structure [ edit ] 
Chairman and half of (six auditors) Accounts shall be appointed by the State Duma, Vice-President and the other half of (six auditors) - Council of the Federation. Audit Chamber composed of a body and the unit. Board considers the organization of work, as well as reports and messages. Chairman (or in his absence - his deputy) manages the Accounting Chamber, organizes its work, auditors led by certain activities. The apparatus consists of the inspectors (who directly organize and carry out control) and other staff members.
Internal matters of the Chamber, the distribution of responsibilities between auditors [ 1 ] Court of Auditors, the [ 2 ] and the interaction of the structural units of the Accounting Chamber, the order of business, development and implementation activities of all kinds and forms of control, and other activities are regulated by the Accounting Chamber, approved by its Board.
See also [ edit ] 
Federal budget of Russia, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ About the Accounts Chamber of Russia , ^ "Apparatus of the Accounts Chamber of Russia" , v , t , e , . Economy of Russia , History Soviet Union, Privatization, 1998 financial crisis, Monetary reforms in Russia (1991, 1993, 1998), National Priority Projects, National champions, Stabilization Fund, Great Recession in Russia, Medvedev modernisation programme, Timeline of largest projects, . , Natural resources Timber, Mining, Aluminium, Oil reserves, Energy, Nuclear power, Geothermal power, Renewable energy, . , Agriculture Fishery, Hunting, Forestry, . , Industry Engineering, (Aircraft, Automotive, Tractor, timber and agricultural machinery, Defence, Shipbuilding, Space industry, Rolling stock manufacturers), Metallurgy, (Pipe Industry), Petroleum industry, Chemical industry, Science and technology, Food industry, . , Infrastructure Telecommunications, Transport Rail, Vehicle registration plates, . , . , Services Grocery retailing, Tourism, Gambling, Real estate, . , Finance Russian ruble, Account Chamber, Banking (Banks , Central Bank of Russia) , Federal budget, Moscow Exchange, National Pension Fund, Social Insurance Fund, Tax Code, Billionaires, . , Regional economies Natural resources of Primorsky Krai, Federal subjects by GRP, Federal subjects by GDP per capita, Federal subjects by HDI, Federal subjects by unemployment rate, . , Economic regions Central, Ural, North Caucasus, Volga, West Siberian, East Siberian, Volga-Vyatka, Northwestern, Central Black Earth, Far Eastern, Northern, . , Other Companies, Trade unions, . , Category, Commons, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Accounts_Chamber_of_Russia and oldid=587540275" Categories: Politics of Russia, Government audit, . Hidden categories: Articles containing Russian-language text, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DNDDDNNDD, DNNNDDD, DNDNDD / srpski, . Edit links This page was last modified on 24 December 2013 at 18:07.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
