
Agriculture in Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Agriculture in Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search For the period before 1989 see Agriculture in the Soviet Union and Agriculture in the Russian Empire. 
, This article includes a list of references, but its sources remain unclear because it has insufficient inline citations . Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (April 2009) , Agriculture in Russia survived a severe transition decline in the early 1990s as it struggled to transform from a command economy to a market-oriented system. Following the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991, large collective and state farms a the backbone of Soviet agriculture a had to contend with the sudden loss of state-guaranteed marketing and supply channels and a changing legal environment that created pressure for reorganization and restructuring. In less than ten years, livestock inventories declined by half, pulling down demand for feed grains, and the area planted to grains dropped by 25/p> 
The use of mineral fertilizer and other purchased inputs plummeted, driving yields down. Most farms could no longer afford to purchase new machinery and other capital investments. After nearly ten years of decline, Russian agriculture has begun to show signs of modest improvement. The transition to a more market-oriented system has introduced an element of fiscal responsibility, which has resulted in increased efficiency as farmers try to maintain productivity while adjusting to resource constraints. The farming structure has changed, and the relatively small family farms that have emerged and grown stronger in the new market environment are now producing in aggregate value more than the total output of large corporate farms that succeeded the traditional collectives.
Contents
1 Ownership and farm structure 1.1 Corporate farms , 1.2 Household plots , . , 2 Planting and harvest dates , 3 Sectors 3.1 Crops , 3.2 Dairy , . , 4 Farm credit , 5 Investments 5.1 State investment program , . , 6 Governance and economy of Russian agriculture , 7 See also , 8 References , 9 Further reading , 10 External links , . 
Ownership and farm structure [ edit ] 
Rostov Region region combine 
When the Kulaks were slain and sent to Siberia, until the 1980s, all agricultural land in Russia was in state ownership, and the transition to a market-oriented economy had to start with privatisation of land and farm assets. [ 1 ] Russia's agricultural privatisation programme can be traced back to 1989a90, when Soviet legislation under Gorbachev allowed, first, the creation of non-state business enterprises in the form of cooperatives; and second, legalized private ownership of land by individuals (the November 1990 Law of Land Reform). While household plots cultivated by employees of collective farms and other rural residents had played a key role in Russian agriculture since the 1930s, legislation enabling independent private farms outside the collectivist framework was passed only in November 1990.
The Law on Peasant Farms adopted in December 1990 was followed by laws and decrees that defined the legal organizational forms of large agricultural enterprises, the legal aspects of land ownership, and the procedures for certifying and exercising ownership rights. Specifically, agricultural land was denationalized, and its ownership (together with the ownership of other farm assets) was legally transferred from the state to the ownership of kolkhozes. But at the same time imposed a ten-year moratorium on buying and selling privately owned land
The new legal environment created expectations among Western scholars and Russian reform advocates that family farms would emerge in large numbers and the large-scale collective farms would be restructured. But as it turned out, few peasants were interested in establishing individual farms, and management and operating practices inside large agricultural enterprises remained largely unchanged despite formal reorganization. [ 1 ] The lack of enthusiasm for the creation of private farms was attributed to inadequate rural infrastructure, which did not provide processing and marketing services for small producers and also to the fear that families striking out on their own might lose eligibility for social services that were traditionally provided by the local corporate farm instead of the municipality. [ 2 ] 
Starting in 1993, privatized kolkhoz and sovkhoz became a "corporate farm". These farms were legally reorganized as common stock companies, limited liability partnerships, or agricultural production cooperatives and turned over, usually in their entirety, to the joint ownership of agricultural workers and pensioners. These farms continued to operate largely as they had done under the Soviet system. Today, the term "corporate farm" is an all-inclusive phrase describing the various organizational forms that arose in the process of privatisation without involving distribution of physical parcels of land to individuals.
In diametric opposition to corporate farms is the individual farm sector, which consists of the traditional household plots and the newly formed peasant farms.
Russian agriculture today is characterized by three main types of farms. Two of these farm types a corporate farms and household plots a existed all through the Soviet period (the former are basically the successors of the Soviet collective and state farms). The third type a peasant farms a began to emerge only after 1990, during the post-Soviet transition. The evolution of Russian agriculture since 1990 shows a significant change of resources and production from the formerly dominant corporate farms to the individual farming sector. During 2006, household plots and peasant farms combined controlled about 20f agricultural land and 48f cattle, [ 3 ] up from 2f agricultural land and 17f cattle in 1990. The share of the individual sector in gross agricultural output increased from 26n 1990 to 59n 2005. Producing 59f agricultural output on 20f land, individual farms achieve a much greater productivity than corporate farms.
Shares of agricultural land, cattle headcount, and gross agricultural output
for farms of different types (in percent of respective totals) [ 4 ] 
Indicator Farm type 1990 1995 2000 2005 Agricultural land, Corporate farms, 98, 90, 87, 80, Household plots, 2, 5, 6, 10, Peasant farms, 0, 5, 7, 10, Cattle, Corporate farms, 83, 70, 60, 52, Household plots, 17, 29, 38, 44, Peasant farms, 0, 1, 2, 4, Agricultural production, Corporate farms, 74, 50, 43, 41, Household plots, 26, 48, 54, 53, Peasant farms, 0, 2, 3, 6, During 2003, peasant farms accounted for 14.4f Russia's total grain production (up from 6.2n 1997), 21.8ercent of sunflower seed (up from 10.8ive years earlier), and 10.1f sugar beets (3.5n 1997). Corporate farms produced the remainder of these crops, with hardly any contribution from the small household plots. However, household plots, with a maximum size of 2 hectares (4.9 acres), produced 93ercent of the country's potatoes and 80f the vegetables, either for family consumption or for sale in the local markets. They also produced 51f the milk and 54f the meat in 2003, with the rest coming primarily from corporate farms (the contribution of peasant farms to livestock production was negligible). [ 5 ] 
Corporate farms [ edit ] 
Corporate farming plays a strong role in Russian agriculture after reforms such as the Russian Land Code which establish reliable title to land. Some such as Black Earth Farming and Vadim Moshkovich's Rusagro have sought external financing trough IPO's on western stock exchanges. [ 6 ] [ 7 ] [ 8 ] 
Household plots [ edit ] 
A typical household plot in Fedyakovo, near Nizhny Novgorod 
As the household plots gained more land in the process of reform, their share in Russia's agricultural production increased from 26f aggregate value in 1990 to 53n 2005. [ 4 ] According to a survey conducted in three Russian villages, [ 2 ] the increase in land holdings and farm production tripled the nominal family income from 512 rubles per month in 1997 to 1, 525 rubles per month in 1999 (this includes both cash income and the value of food that the family consumed from its household plot). The change in family income outstripped inflation, increasing by 18n real terms (the Consumer Price Index grew by 252etween 1997 and 1999 [ 9 ] ). This real growth in family income reduced the percentage of rural households living in poverty from 29n 1997 to 17n 1999. [ 2 ] 
Planting and harvest dates [ edit ] 
Young wheat just coming up in June in a field near Nizhny Novgorod 
The winter-crop planting season stretches over nearly three months. The sowing campaign begins in August in the north and advances southward, concluding in late October in the Southern district. Spring grain planting in European Russia usually begins in April and progresses from south to north. The "summer" cropsachiefly corn and sunflowersaare last to be sown, and planting approaches completion by late May or early June. The harvest of small grains (chiefly wheat and barley) moves from south to north and begins in late June in extreme southern Russia. Harvest operations are in full swing by early July and largely finished by mid-to-late August. Corn and sunflower harvest begins in September and continues through October. (View regional crop calendars.)
In the spring wheat region, planting typically begins in May. Oats are sown first, followed by wheat, then barley. Planting is concluded by June. Spring wheat advances through the reproductive stage during mid-July, when temperatures climb to their highest levels and grains are most vulnerable to heat stress. Grain harvest begins in late August and continues through October. It is not unusual for a significant portion of the Russian grain cropamillions of hectares in some yearsato remain unharvested, due chiefly to unfavorable weather during the harvest campaign. In an average year, 10 percent of the area planted to spring wheat is abandoned compared to 97 percent of the country's winter wheat area.
Sectors [ edit ] 
Vineyard with grapes Cabernet Sauvignon on the Taman Peninsula Apple orchard in Korochansky District 
Crops [ edit ] 
, This section is empty. You can help by adding to it. (September 2014) , Dairy [ edit ] 
, This section is empty. You can help by adding to it. (September 2014) , Farm credit [ edit ] 
While agricultural policy in Russia had been poorly structured and largely unsuccessful, some basic trends have helped to create forces for change. The first is that state tax revenues have been falling, and hence the spending capacity for agricultural policy has been falling. Total federal transfers to agriculture fell from 10o 4f GDP from 1992 to 1993, and budgeted transfers for 1994 are about 2f GDP.
There has been improvement in the agricultural credit situation in Russia over the past five years a for some farms, at least a due largely to subsidies from the federal government. The national project for agriculture has given impetus to the growth of small farms. During 2006, 36 billion rubles in credit were given to more than 100, 000 recipients (as compared to 3.4 billion rubles in credit to 2, 500 borrowers in 2005). Traditional farms and personal plots play an important role in the sector, providing more than 87 percent of all production.
The State offers in-kind credits, whereby seed, fertilizer, and other inputs are provided in exchange for grain harvested at the end of the season, though the use of in-kind credit is reportedly decreasing. The government also provides subsidies for the purchase of plant-protection chemicals and fertilizers, and subsidizes two-thirds of the interest rate on loans from commercial banks, which provide the majority of farm credit. Banks remain cautious and insist on certain farm management practices and minimum levels of input use before granting loans (a policy which, according to some observers, has had a significant positive effect on overall efficiency in the agricultural sector), but banksa confidence is boosted by increasingly reliable guarantees from regional administrations who see stability of food production as a high priority. Banks recognize the inherent risk in agricultural financing but also see agriculture as less risky than other industries and are generally willing to lend money to solvent, well-managed farms.
Over fifty percent of Russiaas farms, however, are already saddled with considerable debt, due in part to the disparity between grain prices and production costs, and few farms are able to offer sufficient collateral to secure a loan. As a result, many farms are forced to rely on outside investors to guarantee loans. These investors, frequently referred to as holding companies, typically are large, cash-rich, traditionally non-agricultural companies that became involved in agriculture over the past five years. Some viewed crop production as a potentially highly profitable venture, and others were working to guarantee raw materials for vertically integrated food-processing operations.
Holding companies possess assets that satisfy banksa demand for collateral, and a farm that receives a commercial loan with the help of a holding company is still eligible for the federal interest subsidy. Many holding companies, particularly those who were attracted to agriculture by the high grain prices during 2000, have lost interest in crop production following two years of low prices and are bailing out. Investments in crop production donat pay off quickly, in contrast to investments in trade. Although some holding companies remain comfortable with the variable profitability of agriculture and will continue to work with farms, several prominent commodity analysts feel that the overall involvement of big companies in agriculture is declining.
This means that current prospects for significant, long-term investment in agriculture a particularly the purchase of agricultural machinery and grain-storage facilities a are somewhat dim. Land reform has been evolving in Russia since the basic right to own farmland was established in 1993, but "landowners" are still unable to use land as collateral in securing a loan. The situation, however, is not one that can be resolved quickly or easily through legislation alone.
There is no mechanism currently in place to enable banks to evaluate the value of land based on its productivity before issuing loans, and banks likely would be reluctant to use land as collateral regardless of legislation. Furthermore, there are restrictions against non-agricultural use of land that is currently used for agriculture: if land is used for other purposes, the owner loses the title to the land. This imposes a limit on the landas "re-sellability, " and, in turn, its value. The use of land as collateral appears to be a remote prospect. [ 10 ] 
Investments [ edit ] 
Investments in fixed capital within the agricultural sector were 10.1 billion USD in 2010, which is 3.3f total investments in the national economy of Russia. Most investments occurred in corporate farming, where about 43.2f the investments were allocated to production buildings and 36.4n machinery and technological equipments. Financing of investments was shared by own financial means (49and by external means (51
State investment program [ edit ] 
In December 2006, the State Duma passed a law requiring a state program for investment in agriculture to be passed every five years. This is the first of those programs. Between 2003 and 2007, agriculture received 37.1 billion rubles' support per year.
Governance and economy of Russian agriculture [ edit ] 
As non-agricultural sectors grew more rapidly after the collapse of the Soviet Union, the share of agriculture in total GDP in Russia decreased from 14.3n 1991 to 4n 2011. The agricultural sector accounted for 9f total employment in 2010.
In early 2014, Russian lawmakers including State Duma agricultural committee deputy chairman Kirill Cherkasov, proposed equating GMO-related activities that may harm human health or even cause death to terrorist acts and to impose criminal liability on producers, sellers and transporters of genetically modified organisms. [ 11 ] [ 12 ] 
See also [ edit ] 
, Agriculture and Agronomy portal, Agriculture in the Soviet Union, Agriculture of Imperial Russia, Tractor, timber and agricultural machinery in Russia, Fishing industry in Russia, Economy of Russia, Russian State Agricultural University, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ a b Z. This began in the late 1980s and in short time most Soviet food was being grown on about 5f the land that had been freed up for private farming. Lerman and K. Brooks (1996). "Russia's Legal Framework for Land Reform and Farm Restructuring", Problems of Post-Communism , 43(6):48-58. , ^ a b c O'Brien, David J.; Wegren, Stephen K (2002). Rural Reform in Post-Soviet Russia . The Woodrow Wilson Center Press. p.126. ISBN0-8018-6960-9. , ^ Exporting Red Meat to Russia: Understanding the Context, 7 October 2010. Retrieved on 2010-10-22. , ^ a b Statistical Yearbook of the Russian Federation 2007 , Rosstat a Federal State Statistical Service, Moscow (2008), Chapter 14, p. 445 et seq. Download from http://www.gks.ru/ > DNDDDDDNDD > DDDDNNDDDND DDNNDD DNDDDDDNDD > DDNNDDNDDD NNDNDNNDNDNDDD DDDDDDDDD, 2007D. (Russian) . , ^ Agriculture in Russia 2004 , statistical yearbook, Rosstat a Federal State Statistical Service, Moscow, 2004 (Russian) . , ^ About Black Earth Farming Ltd (aBEFa), accessed August 28, 2010 , ^ "Drought in Russia Ripples Beyond the Wheat Fields" article by Andrew E. Kramer in The New York Times August 27, 2010, accessed August 28, 2010 , ^ RT Rosagro Prices IPO at $15 per GDR http://www.rttnews.com/1594191/ros-agro-prices-ipo-at-15-per-gdr-update.aspx , ^ Statistical Yearbook of Russia 2001 , State Statistical Committee of the Russian Federation, Moscow, 2001, p. 583 (Russian) . , ^ Shagaida, Natalya. (2005). "Agricultural Land Market in Russia: Living with Constraints, " Comparative Economic Studies , 47(1): 127-140. , ^ sustainablepulse.com: "Russian Lawmakers Want to Impose Criminal Liability for GMO-related Activities" 15 May 2014 , ^ itar-tass.com: "Russian lawmakers want to impose criminal liability for GMO-related activities" 15 May 2014 , Further reading [ edit ] 
Ioffe, Grigory and Nefedova, Tatyana. Continuity and Change in Rural Russia: A Geographical Perspective . Westview Press or Basic books or Lightning Source Inc (1997 or 1998), trade paperback, 328 pages, ISBN 0-8133-3634-1, Wegren, Stephen K. Agriculture and the State in Soviet and Post-Soviet Russia . University of Pittsburgh Press (1998), hardcover, 293 pages, ISBN 0-8229-4062-0, . 
External links [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Agriculture in Russia ., Russia: Main problems of the Russian agriculture, Agriculture in the Black Sea Region (BS-AGRO.COM), "Geographical Differentiation in Household Plot Production in Rural Russia" by Judith Pallot and Tatyana Nefedova in Journal of Economic Literature at the Wayback Machine (archived August 23, 2004), Foundation for Agrarian Development Research (FADR) English and Russian., Agroresources Net (all Russian), . 
v , t , e , . Agriculture in Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia , Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . Agriculture in Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , v , t , e , . Economy of Russia , History Soviet Union, Privatization, 1998 financial crisis, Monetary reforms in Russia (1991, 1993, 1998), National Priority Projects, National champions, Stabilization Fund, Great Recession in Russia, Medvedev modernisation programme, Timeline of largest projects, . , Natural resources Timber, Mining, Aluminium, Oil reserves, Energy, Nuclear power, Geothermal power, Renewable energy, . , Agriculture Fishery, Hunting, Forestry, . , Industry Engineering, (Aircraft, Automotive, Tractor, timber and agricultural machinery, Defence, Shipbuilding, Space industry, Rolling stock manufacturers), Metallurgy, (Pipe Industry), Petroleum industry, Chemical industry, Science and technology, Food industry, . , Infrastructure Telecommunications, Transport Rail, Vehicle registration plates, . , . , Services Grocery retailing, Tourism, Gambling, Real estate, . , Finance Russian ruble, Account Chamber, Banking (Banks , Central Bank of Russia) , Federal budget, Moscow Exchange, National Pension Fund, Social Insurance Fund, Tax Code, Billionaires, . , Regional economies Natural resources of Primorsky Krai, Federal subjects by GRP, Federal subjects by GDP per capita, Federal subjects by HDI, Federal subjects by unemployment rate, . , Economic regions Central, Ural, North Caucasus, Volga, West Siberian, East Siberian, Volga-Vyatka, Northwestern, Central Black Earth, Far Eastern, Northern, . , Other Companies, Trade unions, . , Category, Commons, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture , Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Agriculture_in_Russia and oldid=630790467" Categories: Agriculture in Russia, . Hidden categories: Articles with Russian-language external links, Articles lacking in-text citations from April 2009, All articles lacking in-text citations, Articles to be expanded from September 2014, All articles to be expanded, Articles with empty sections from September 2014, All articles with empty sections, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DNDDDNNDD, FranAais, ODDDOND, DNNNDDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 23 October 2014 at 13:39.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
