
Politics of Albania - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of Albania 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search See also: List of political parties in Albania 
Albania , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Albania , Constitution Human rights, . , Legislature Parliament Chairperson: Ilir Meta Committees, Members, Leaders Edi Paloka (PD) Gramoz RuAi (PS) Petrit Vasili (LSI) , Leader of the Opposition Lulzim Basha , . , . , Judiciary Constitutional Court, Administrative Court, Court of Justice (ordinary) , Supreme Court, . , Executive President (List) Bujar Nishani , Prime Minister (List) Edi Rama , Deputy Prime Minister Niko Peleshi , Cabinet, . , Administrative divisions Counties, Municipalities Cities, Villages, . , . , Elections Recent elections Presidential 2007, 2012, 2017 , . Parliamentary 2005, 2009, 2013, . Local 2003, 2007, 2011, 2015 , . Referenda 1994, 1997, 1998, . , Political parties Parliamentary PD, PS, LSI, PDIU, FRD, PR, PBDNJ, . Others PGJ, AK, PLL, PDK, PBK, . , . , Foreign relations Ministry of Foreign Affairs Minister: Ditmir Bushati , Diplomatic missions of Albania, in Albania, . , International participation United Nations Permrep: Ferit Hoxha European Union Ambassador: M. Halimi NATO Permrep: Artur Kuko OIC Ambassador: A. Banaj , . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The politics of Albania take place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, wherein the Prime Minister is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament, the Assembly of the Republic of Albania ( Kuvendi i RepublikAs sA ShqipArisA ). Since 1991, the introduction of pluralism, the party system is dominated by the Democratic Party of Albania and the (post-communist) Socialist Party of Albania.
Its official journal is Albanian Official Journal.
Contents
1 Executive branch , 2 Legislative branch , 3 Judicial branch , 4 Principal government officials , 5 International organization participation , 6 Administrative divisions , 7 See also , 8 External links , 9 References , . 
Executive branch [ edit ] 
The head of state in Albania is the President of the Republic. The President is elected to a 5-year term by the Assembly of the Republic of Albania by secret ballot, requiring a two-thirds majority of the votes of all deputies. Bujar Nishani was on 11 June 2012 elected president by a simple majority of deputies in the assembly, after it had failed on three earlier occasions to agree on a nominee. [ 1 ] He took the oath of office on 25 July 2012. [ 2 ] 
The President has the power to guarantee observation of the constitution and all laws, act as commander in chief of the armed forces, exercise the duties of the Assembly of the Republic of Albania when the Assembly is not in session, and appoint the Chairman of the Council of Ministers (Prime Minister).
Executive power rests with the Council of Ministers (cabinet). The Chairman of the Council (Prime Minister) is appointed by the President; ministers are nominated by the President on the basis of the Prime Minister's recommendation. The People's Assembly must give final approval of the composition of the Council. The Council is responsible for carrying out both foreign and domestic policies. It directs and controls the activities of the ministries and other state organs.
Legislative branch [ edit ] 
The building of the Assembly of Albania. 
The Assembly of the Republic of Albania ( Kuvendi i RepublikAs sA ShqipArisA ) is the lawmaking body in Albania. There are 140 deputies in the Assembly, of which 100 are directly elected by an absolute majority of the voters, and 40 are chosen by their parties on the basis of proportional representation. The President of the Assembly (or Speaker) has two deputies and chairs the Assembly. There are 15 permanent commissions, or committees. Parliamentary elections are held at least every 4 years.
Judicial branch [ edit ] 
The court system consists of a Constitutional Court, the Court of Cassation, appeals courts, and district courts. The Constitutional Court comprises nine members appointed by the People's Assembly for maximum 9-year terms. The Constitutional Court interprets the constitution, determines the constitutionality of laws, and resolves disagreements between local and federal authorities. The remaining courts are each divided into three jurisdictions: criminal, civil, and military. The Court of Cassation is the highest court of appeal and consists of 11 members appointed by the People's Assembly and serving 7-year terms. The President of the Republic chairs the High Council of Justice (HCJ) charged with appointing and dismissing other judges. The HCJ was expanded in late 1997 to comprise 13 members from among the various branches of government.
A college of three judges renders Albanian court verdicts; there is no jury trial, although the college is sometimes referred to in the Albanian press as the "jury."
Principal government officials [ edit ] 
Further information: Cabinet of Albania 
International organization participation [ edit ] 
, This section is in a list format that may be better presented using prose. You can help by converting this section to prose, if appropriate. Editing help is available. (March 2010) , BSEC, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICC, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, NATO, OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, SECI, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNOMIG, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (applicant).
See also: Accession of Albania to the European Union 
Administrative divisions [ edit ] 
See also: Counties of Albania 
Albania is divided into 12 counties or prefectures. Counties are appointed by the Council of Ministers. Each county comprises several districts (Rreths), of which there are 36. Each district has its own local administration and governor. District governors are elected by the District Council, whose members are selected from party lists made public to voters before local elections, on the basis of proportional representation. City mayors are directly elected by voters, while city councils are chosen by proportional representation.
See also [ edit ] 
Constitution of Albania, Elections in Albania, History of post-Communist Albania, Albanian Nuclear Agency, . 
External links [ edit ] 
Official Sites Albania e-Portal, Constitutions of Albania in several languages, Albanian Constitution, Albanian Parliament, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ Bujar Nishani elected President of Albania , Top Channel TV, Tirana, 11 June 2012.Accessed 21 August 2012.(In English) , ^ Bujar Nishani Sworn in as Albaniaas President , Besar Likmeta, BalkanInsight, 25 July 2012.Accessed 21 August 2012.(In English) , v , t , e , . Politics of Europe , Sovereign states Albania , Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , v , t , e , . Albaniatopics , History Timeline, Origins, Illyrians, Praevalitana, Epirus Nova, Middle Ages, Albania under the Byzantine Empire, Theme of Dyrrhachium, Albania under the Bulgarian Empire, Albania under Serbia in the Middle Ages, Principality of Arbanon, Kingdom of Albania, Albanian principalities in the Middle Ages, League of LezhA, Venetian Albania, Ottoman Albania, Albanian Pashaliks, Massacre of the Albanian Beys, Albanian National Awakening, Revolts of 1833a39, Revolt of 1843a44, Revolt of 1847, League of Prizren, League of Peja, Revolt of 1910, Battle of DeAiq, Declaration of independence, Independent Albania, Provisional Government of Albania, Albania during the Balkan Wars, Principality of Albania (1914a25) , Albania during World War I, Italian protectorate, Vlora War, Republic of Mirdita, Albanian Republic (1925a28) , Albanian Kingdom (1928a39) , Albania Kingdom under Italy Invasion, Colonization-Project, . , Albania Kingdom under Germany, World War II Resistance, Communist Albania (1946a92) , Post-Communist Albania (since 1992) , . , Geography 
Regions, Lakes and lagoons, Mountains, Plains, National Parks, Rivers, Seas and capes, Cities, . , Politics 
Administrative divisions, Constitution, Corruption, Elections, Foreign relations, Heads of State, Human rights LGBT, . , LGBT history, Law Law enforcement, . , Parliament, Political parties, Military, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Central bank, Lek (currency) , Oil and gas, Stock exchange, Taxation, Telecommunications, Tourism, Trade unions, Transport, . , Society 
Albanians, Demographics, Education, Language, Religion, . , Culture Art, Cinema, Coat of arms, Costume, Cuisine, Emigration, Flag, Languages, Literature, Music, Mythology, Nationalism, Public holidays, Radio, Sports, Smoking, Television, . , Outline, Index, Bibliography, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_Albania and oldid=630407276" Categories: Politics of Albania, . Hidden categories: Articles needing cleanup from March 2010, All pages needing cleanup, Articles with sections that need to be turned into prose from March 2010, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
aaaaa, DNDDDNNDD, Bosanski, AeAtina, Deutsch, EspaAol, FranAais, Italiano, Magyar, Polski, PortuguAs, Shqip, SlovenAAina, Svenska, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 20 October 2014 at 18:30.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
