
Alexander Rutskoy - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Alexander Rutskoy 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia AA(Redirected from Aleksandr Rutskoy) Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . 
, This article may be expanded with text translated from the corresponding article in the Russian Wikipedia . (October 2013) Click [show] on the right to read important instructions before translating. View a machine-translated version of the Russian article. , Google's machine translation is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. , Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. , After translating, {{TranslatedruDNNDDD, DDDDNDDDN DDDDDDDNDDDN}} must be added to the talk page to ensure copyright compliance. , For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation. , . , This biographical article needs additional citations for verification . Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately , especially if potentially libelous or harmful. (April 2008) , Alexander Rutskoy 
DDDDNDDDN DNNDDD , Alexander Rutskoy in 1993, Acting President of Russia In office 
22 September 1993a 4 October 1993
Serving with Boris Yeltsin (De facto), Preceded by Boris Yeltsin, Succeeded by Boris Yeltsin, Vice President of Russia In office 
10 July 1991a 4 October 1993, President Boris Yeltsin, Preceded by None, Succeeded by Office abolished, Personal details Born ( 1947-09-16 ) 16 September 1947 (age67) 
Proskuriv, Ukrainian SSR
Soviet Union, Citizenship Soviet (1947a1991), Russian (1991apresent), . , Political party A Just Russia, Spouse(s) Nellie Zolotukhin (div.) 
Lyudmila Novikova (div.) 
Irina Popova, Children Dmitry
Alexander
Rostislav
Catherine, Religion Russian Orthodox, Military service Years of service 1971a1993, Awards Hero of the Soviet Union (1988), Boris Yeltsin expelled Rutskoy from army after his victory in the 1993 coup d'etat, Alexander Rutskoy's voice Sorry, your browser either has JavaScript disabled or does not have any supported player.
You can download the clip or download a player to play the clip in your browser. recorded September 2013 
, Problems playing this file? See media help. , Alexander Vladimirovich Rutskoy (Russian: DDDDNDIDDN DDDDDIDDNDDDN DNNDDID ) (born 16 September 1947) is a Russian politician and a former Soviet military officer. [ 1 ] Rutskoy served as the only Vice President of Russia from 10 July 1991 to 4 October 1993, and as the governor of Kursk Oblast from 1996 to 2000. In the course of the Russian constitutional crisis of 1993, he was proclaimed acting president of Russia, [ 2 ] [ 3 ] in opposition to Boris Yeltsin.
Contents
1 Early life and career , 2 Russian constitutional crisis of 1993 , 3 References , 4 External links , . 
Early life and career [ edit ] 
Alexander Rutskoy was born in Proskuriv, Ukrainian SSR, USSR (today Khmelnytskyi, Ukraine). Rutskoy graduated from High Air Force School in Barnaul (1971) and Gagarin Air Force Academy in Moscow (1980). He had reached rank of Colonel when he was sent to the Soviet war in Afghanistan. He was in command of an air assault regiment. He had been shot down twice during the war but ejected safely both times. For his bravery in 1988 he was awarded Hero of the Soviet Union. [ 4 ] He was chosen by Boris Yeltsin to be his vice presidential running mate in the 1991 Russian presidential election.
Rutskoy was vice president of Russia from 10 July 1991 to 4 October 1993. As vice president, he openly called for the independence of Transnistria and Crimea from Moldova and Ukraine, respectively [ 5 ] and telephoned Georgia's leader Eduard Shevardnadze, threatening to bomb Tbilisi during the war in South Ossetia. [ 6 ] 
Russian constitutional crisis of 1993 [ edit ] 
Main article: Russian constitutional crisis of 1993 
Following the initial period of peaceful collaboration with Yeltsin, from the end of 1992, Rutskoy began openly declaring his opposition to the President's economic and foreign policies and accusing some Russian government officials of corruption. His opposition to Yeltsin became especially clear during the crisis in March 1993 when the Congress of People's Deputies tried, unsuccessfully, to remove Yeltsin from the presidency. In subsequent months, Rutskoy himself was accused of corruption by the officials of Yeltsin's government. On 1 September 1993, President Boris Yeltsin suspended Rutskoy's execution of his vice-presidential duties, due to alleged corruption charges. The Russian Constitutional Court subsequently declared Yeltsin's decree as unconstitutional.
On 21 September 1993, President Boris Yeltsin dissolved the Supreme Soviet of Russia, which was in direct contradiction with the articles of Soviet Constitution of 1978, e.g.:
Article 121-6. The powers of the President of RSFSR cannot be used to change national and state organization of RSFSR, to dissolve or to interfere with the functioning of any elected organs of state power. In this case, his powers cease immediately. 
, Problems playing this file? See media help. , On the night from 21 to 22 September 1993, Rutskoy arrived at the residence of the Russian parliament and, at 00:22, assumed the powers of acting president of Russia, in accordance with the above article. He took the presidential oath, and said: "I am taking the authority of President. The anti-constitutional decree of President Yeltsin is annulled." Rutskoy's interim presidency, although constitutional, was never acknowledged outside Russia. After the two-week standoff, and the violence erupting on the streets of Moscow, on 4 October 1993, the Parliament building was taken by Yeltsin's military forces. Rutskoy and his supporters were arrested and charged with organization of mass disturbances. On the same day, Yeltsin officially dismissed Rutskoy as vice president and fired him from the military forces. Rutskoy was imprisoned in the Moscow Lefortovo prison until 26 February 1994, when he and other participants of both August 1991 and October 1993 crises, were granted amnesty by the new State Duma.
Rutskoy and Putin in May 2000 
Soon after his release, Rutskoy founded a populist, nationalist party Derzhava (Russian: DDNDDDD) , which, failed in the State Duma election of 1995, gathering only about 2.5f the votes, thus not passing the 5hreshold. He decided not to run for the presidency in the summer of 1996, but did run for the position of the governor of his native Kursk Oblast in the fall of the same year. Being a joint candidate from the communist and "patriotic forces", he was initially banned from the election, but allowed to run by the Russian Supreme Court only a few days before the election, which he won in a landslide, with about 76f the vote. To this day, he is still active in Russian politics.
References [ edit ] 
^ Encarta Encyclopedia, "Encyclopedia Article: Aleksandr Rutskoy", 2008. Archived 31 October 2009. , ^ Rosenberg, Steven (3 October 2003). "Remembering Russia's civil siege". BBC News (BBC) . Retrieved 2008-04-10 . , ^ Bendersky, Yevgeny (23 February 2005). "CIVIL SOCIETY. WHEN THE IMPOSITION OF WESTERN DEMOCRACY CAUSES A BACKLASH". EurasiaNet and PINR . Retrieved 10 April 2008 . , ^ Staar, Richard F. (12 November 1992). "The Next Coup Attempt in Russia". Chicago Tribune . Retrieved 12 April 2013 . , ^ Michael Kraus, Ronald D. Liebowitz (1996), Russia and Eastern Europe After Communism, p. 305. Westview Press, ISBN 0-8133-8948-8 , ^ Alexei Zverev Ethnic Conflicts in the Caucasus 1988a1994, in: Bruno Coppieters (ed., 1996), Contested Borders in the Caucasus. VUB University Press , External links [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Alexander Vladimirovich Rutskoy ., About Rutskoy's Derzhava movement, . 
Persondata Name, Rutskoy, Alexander, Alternative names, DNNDDD, DDDDNDDDN DDDDDDDNDDDN (Russian); Rutskoy, Aleksandr, Short description, Russian politician, Vice President of Russia., Date of birth, 16 September 1947, Place of birth, Kursk, Soviet Union, Date of death, Place of death, v , t , e , . Presidents of the Russian Federation , Boris Yeltsin, Alexander Rutskoy , Boris Yeltsin, Vladimir Putin, Dmitry Medvedev, Vladimir Putin, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Alexander_Rutskoy and oldid=625493877" Categories: 1947 births, Living people, Acting Presidents of Russia, Soviet war in Afghanistan veterans, Soviet Air Force officers, Heroes of the Soviet Union, Shot-down aviators, Governors of Kursk Oblast, People from Khmelnytskyi, Ukraine, Russian people of Ukrainian descent, Vice Presidents of Russia, Russian nationalists, . Hidden categories: Use dmy dates from April 2014, Articles to be expanded from October 2013, All articles to be expanded, Articles needing translation from Russian Wikipedia, BLP articles lacking sources from April 2008, Articles with hAudio microformats, Articles containing Russian-language text, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, DNDDDNNDD, CatalA, AeAtina, Deutsch, FranAais, iei, Bahasa Indonesia, Italiano, DDDDDD, Nederlands, aeaee, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Suomi, Svenska, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, Tiang Viat, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 14 September 2014 at 08:00.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
