
Anatoly Chubais - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Anatoly Chubais 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Anatoly Chubais , First Deputy Prime Minister of Russia In office 
17 March 1997a 23 March 1998, President Boris Yeltsin, Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin, In office 
5 November 1994a 16 January 1996, Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin, Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation In office 
1 June 1992a 5 November 1994, President Boris Yeltsin, Prime Minister Boris Yeltsin
Yegor Gaidar (acting)
Viktor Chernomyrdin, Personal details Born Anatoly Borisovich Chubais 
( 1955-06-16 ) June 16, 1955 (age59) 
Borisov, Byelorussian SSR, Soviet Union, Nationality Russian, Political party Independent, Other political
affiliations Communist Party of the Soviet Union
Union of Rightist Forces, Spouse(s) Ludmila (?-?; 2 children)
Maria Vishnevskaya (?-?)
Avdotya Smirnova (m. 2012), Signature , Anatoly Borisovich Chubais (Russian: DDDNDIDDD DDNDINDDDN DNDDIDN ; born June 16, 1955) is a Russian politician and businessman who was responsible for privatization in Russia as an influential member of Boris Yeltsin's administration in the early 1990s. [ 1 ] During this period, he was a key figure in introducing market economy and the principles of private ownership to Russia after the fall of the Soviet Union.
From 1998 to 2008, he headed the state-owned electrical power monopoly RAO UES, while a 2004 survey conducted by PricewaterhouseCoopers and the Financial Times named him the world's 54th most respected business leader. [ 2 ] Currently, he is the head of the Russian Nanotechnology Corporation (RUSNANO). [ 3 ] He has been a member of the Advisory Council for JPMorgan Chase since September 2008 and a member of global board of advisers at the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) since October 2012. [ 4 ] 
Contents
1 Early life , 2 Dissident economist , 3 Privatization Chief , 4 Influence on Russian Politics and Economics , 5 RAO Unified Energy System Of Russia , 6 RUSNANO , 7 Personal life , 8 Involvement in Political Parties , 9 Awards , 10 References , 11 External links , . 
Early life [ edit ] 
Chubais was born on 16 June 1955 in the town of Borisov in Belarus, which was then part of the Soviet Union. His father Boris Matveyevich Chubais, a retired army colonel and veteran of World War II, worked as a lecturer of Philosophy. [ 5 ] Though his mother, Raisa Efimovna Sagal, received a degree in economics at university, she opted to stay home to care for their children on the military bases where her husband was regularly assigned. [ 6 ] Anatoly Chubais has an older brother Igor Chubais (born 1947), philosopher. [ 6 ] 
Chubais has some Jewish roots, but he is not open about this. [ 7 ] 
In 1977, Chubais graduated from the Leningrad Institute of Engineering and Economics (LEEI) in present-day St. Petersburg and joined the Communist Party of the Soviet Union till 1991 when he left it. [ 8 ] While later working at LEEI, Chubias started a club called Reforma, which helped turn the city of Leningrad into a model of political reform by constructing platforms for both local and national elections. Reforma also engaged in drafting reformist legislation, a step important down the road when Chubais would work in the city government. [ 9 ] In 1982, he attained the rank of Associate Professor (DDNDDN) at LEEI, while in 1983, he received his Candidate of Sciences (Ph.D.) degree in Economics for the dissertation entitled "DNNDDDDDDDDD D NDDNDDDNDD DDNDDDD DDDDDNDDDDDN NDDDNNDDNNDDDDDDN NDNDDDDDDN D DNNDNDDDNN DDNNDD-NDNDDNDNDDN DNDDDDDDNDNN" (Research and Development of Methods for the Planned Improvement of Management in Industrial Research and Development Organizations). [ 6 ] 
Dissident economist [ edit ] 
Starting in the early 1980s, Chubais became a leader of an informal circle of market-oriented economists in Leningrad. In 1982, together with economists Yury Yarmagayev and Grigory Glazkov, he published an article called "DDDNDNN NDNNDNDDDN NDDNDNNDDDDDD NDDDNNDNNDDNDDNND DNDDDNDNNDD D NNDDDDNN DDNNDD-NDNDDNDNDDDD DNDDNDNND" (Questions of Expanding the Autonomy of Business Enterprises in the Interest of Scientific and Technological Progress) where the authors argued that no amount of central planning could predict the end-demand for products. Also in 1982, Chubais was introduced to the future Prime Minister of Russia Yegor Gaidar, who was invited to and attended seminars led by Chubais. [ 6 ] 
By 1987, Chubais had become the organizer of the Leningrad chapter of the club Perestroyka whose mission was to promote and discuss democratic ideas among the local intelligentsia. Among the people involved were his brother Igor who had founded the Moscow-based chapter of Perestroyka and Perestroyka-88 clubs, future Russian Deputy Prime Minister Alexei Kudrin, future Chubais associates Pyotr Mostovoy and Alexander Kazakov, the future President of Saint Petersburg bank Vladimir Kogan, future Minister of Anti-Monopoly Policy and Entrepreneurship Support Ilya Yuzhanov, and future Deputy Governor of Saint Petersburg Mikhail Manevich. [ 6 ] 
For financing their seminars, dissident economists organized a tulip farm. In the four days before the International Women's Day (March 8) they managed to get income equivalent to the price of several Lada cars. The tulip money was used to finance the elections of Anatoly Sobchak, Yury Boldyrev and many other democratic candidates. As a result, 2/3 of the deputies winning the 1990 elections to Leningrad Soviet were from the opposition. Chubais himself later stated that he personally did not participate in growing or selling of the flowers. [ 6 ] 
At the end of 1980, the economist Vitaly Nayshul proposed the idea of using vouchers to facilitate mass privatization in order to transform the Soviet Union into a market economy. Chubais strongly criticized the scheme at the time, citing the inevitable inequality and social tensions that would result if implemented as proposed. Ironically, Chubais would later become the champion of the same concept just several years later. [ 6 ] 
Privatization Chief [ edit ] 
See also: Privatization in Russia 
In 1990, upon the election of Anatoly Sobchak as Chairman of the Leningrad City Council, Chubais assumed the position of his Deputy. He was trying to implement Sobchak's idea of creating a Free Economic Zone in Leningrad. In 1991, Chubais declined the offer to become the Chairman of Leningrad Ispolkom to instead become an advisor to the mayoral administration in Leningrad (by now renamed St. Petersburg) where Sobchak had just been elected mayor. At the same time, Chubais worked as the president of newly established Wassily Leontief Center for Research in Economics.
People insist Chubais (The Redhead) must be imprisoned for the privatization process 
In November 1991, Chubais became a minister in the Yeltsin Cabinet, handling the portfolio of Rosimushchestvo (the Committee for the Management of State Property) which was handling privatization in Russia. [ 6 ] 
Chubais originally advocated rapid privatization in order to raise revenue, similar to the model being used in Hungary. This model though was rejected by the Congress of People's Deputies of Russia. Eventually, a compromise was proposed in the form of voucher privatization, akin to that which was already underway in Czech Republic. On June 11, 1991, the Supreme Soviet of Russia adopted this compromise idea and the massive program was officially initiated by decree of President Boris Yeltsin on August 19, 1991. [ 6 ] 
Influence on Russian Politics and Economics [ edit ] 
From November 1994 until January 1996, Chubais held the position of deputy prime minister for economic and financial policy in the Russian government. [ 10 ] Thanks to liberalizing reforms carried out in 1995, the Russian Government was finally enjoying a measure of financial stability, something its politicians had been seeking ever since the resignation of Yegor Gaidar in 1993. By the end of 1995, the average annual inflation rate had declined from 18own to 3sup id="cite_ref-11" class="reference"> [ 11 ] 
From April 1995 until February 1996, Chubais also represented Russia in two international financial institutions - the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). [ 12 ] 
After resigning as deputy prime minister in January 1996, Chubais agreed to manage Boris Yeltsinas presidential re-election campaign. By this time according to public opinion surveys, Yeltsinas approval rating had fallen to roughly 3Chubais established the Civil Society Foundation as well as Yeltsinas Campaign Analytical Group, which became one part of the Foundation. The activities undertaken by the Group helped Yeltsin regain popularity and win re-election in the second round of the polls on 3 July 1994, capturing 53, 82f the popular vote. [ 13 ] 
From July 1996 until March 1997, Chubais was the chief of the Russian Presidential Administration. His tenure was marked by the growing influence of this office. [ 14 ] 
Chubais participated in the Bilderberg Club session in Ternberi (possibly the conference resort at Turnberry), Scotland in 1998, and co-chaired the Round Table of Industrialists of Russia and the EU during the joint session of the Government Commission of the Russian Federation and the European Union. [ 15 ] He was also elected to the Board of Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs in 2000. [ 10 ] 
RAO Unified Energy System Of Russia [ edit ] 
In 1998 Chubais was elected to the Chairman of the Board of RAO UES of Russia, the state-owned electricity monopoly, at a special general meeting of shareholders; he soon was also appointed Chairman of the Board. [ 16 ] 
Since 2000, Chubais had consistently defended the need for further reform, which included decoupling the functions of generation, transmission, and distribution from the monopoly holding company for subsequent sale of majority shares to private investors. Chubais was convinced that unbundling and privatization of the monopoly were only mechanisms to raise the necessary and substantial funds for the modernization of Russiaas electricity sector. [ 17 ] 
He was elected president of the CIS Electric Power Council (2000), and later was repeatedly re-elected to that post from 2001 to 2004. [ 18 ] 
In lieu for reforms, Chubais and his team managed to raise more than $30 billion of private investments for the Russian electric power sector in the form of construction of new facilities: 130 new units with a total capacity of about 29, 000 MW, 10, 000 kilometers of transmission lines, 60, 000 kilometers of distribution network lines, and thousands of electrical sub-stations of all classes of voltage. His reforms also helped eliminate the use of barter payments and significantly reduced the number of payment defaults in the sector. [ 18 ] 
In 2007, the Russian newspaper Vedomosti named Chubais the aProfessional of the Yeara. The paper called him the only professional reformer in Russia because of his achievements in breaking of one monopoly into dozens of independent entities, introducing market forces into the electricity distribution system, and transforming a government institution structure into one attractive for private investment and management. [ 19 ] 
In July 2008, RAO UES of Russia ceased to exist as a legal entity. [ 20 ] 
RUSNANO [ edit ] 
Since September 2008, Chubais has been the General Manager of the State Corporation Rosnanotech. [ 3 ] 
The official business of the corporation is to promote innovation and modernization in Russiaas economy in several areas. For example, RUSNANO forms an important part of the governmentas strategy to find economic alternatives in order to reduce the countryas dependence on fossil fuels. Current targets that have been set for the state corporation include reaching 900 billions rubles of sales by the year 2015. [ 21 ] In the past, Chubais has compared RUSNANO to a garden, in which the corporation helps to cultivate innovative business ventures. Over its five years of operation (2007-2012), RUSNANO has signed 105 investment agreements totaling approximately 480 billion rubles, 205 billion of which are direct investments made by RUSNANO. During that time, RUSNANO has also launched 24 new manufacturing projects. [ 22 ] 
Chubais has been a member of the Skolkovo Foundation Council since 2010, and in 2011 was elected Chairman of the Board of LTD RUSNANO. [ 23 ] 
Personal life [ edit ] 
Chubais is married to Avdotia Smirnova (a screenwriter and TV presenter), and has two children from his previous marriage: a son, Aleksey and a daughter, Olga. [ 5 ] 
On March 17, 2005, he survived an assassination attempt. Vladimir Kvachkov was charged for the crime, but was acquitted by a jury. [ 24 ] 
In 2008, Chubais was commemorated with a Presidential Commendation for helping draft part of the Russian Constitution, and overall contributions to democracy in Russia. [ 5 ] 
Involvement in Political Parties [ edit ] 
In June 1993, Anatoly Chubais co-founded the electoral bloc aRussiaas Choicea(Vybor Rossii) which was headed by Yegor Gaidar. In December 1993, running under this bloc, Chubais was elected as a deputy to the Russian State Duma in its first convocation. [ 25 ] 
On July 12a13, 1994, Chubais was elected to the governing council of the party aDemocratic Choice of Russiaa, which had been built off the electoral bloc aRussiaas Choicea. In December 1998, Chubais then became a member of the Organizing Committee of Right Cause coalition and was elected to the Steering Committee of the Organizing Committee of this coalition. [ 5 ] 
In July 1996, Chubais founded the aCenter for Protection of Private Propertya Foundation. [ 26 ] 
In May 2000, Chubais was elected co-chairman of the Coordinating Council of the Russian National Political Organization "Union of Right Forces" at its founding congress. He was also later elected co-president and a member of the Federal Political Council on May 26, 2001 during the founding congress of the "Union of Right Forces" Party (SPS). [ 25 ] 
On January 24, 2004, he resigned from his post as co-chair of the party, but remained on the Federal Political Council of the SPS party. [ 25 ] 
In May 2010, Chubais became the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Gaidar Foundation, jointly established by the Gaidar Institute for Economic Policy and Maria Strugatsky. [ 27 ] 
Awards [ edit ] 
In 1997, the British magazine Euromoney named him the world's best Minister of Finance. [ 28 ] 
In December 2001, Chubais was awarded an honorary diploma of International Award by the International Union of Economists for his significant contributions to the Russian Federation, specifically his work applying advanced international experience to introduce contemporary methods of organizing administration, economics, finances and production processes. [ 10 ] 
In 2008, Chubais was awarded a Presidential Commendation for helping draft part of the Russian Constitution as well as his overall contributions to democracy in Russia [ 5 ] 
In 2010, Chubais was honored by with IV degree Order For Merit to the Fatherland afor outstanding contribution to the implementation of state policy in the field of nanotechnology and many years of favorable worka. [ 29 ] 
Chubais has received three presidential commendations (awarded in 1995, 1997 and 1998) and as well as one honorary Ph.D. from the St. Petersburg State Engineering and Economic University. [ 10 ] 
References [ edit ] 
^ Profile: Anatoly Chubais BBC News , ^ Chubais, Kukes Are Respected , ^ a b Russian reformer Chubais becomes Rosnanotech head Reuters, 22 September 2008. , ^ J.P. Morgan appoints Anatoly Chubais to advisory council , ^ a b c d e Prominent Russians: Anatoly Chubais Russiapedia , ^ a b c d e f g h i DNDDDN, DDDNDDDD Collection of materials at Lenta.ru (Russian) , ^ Tycoons with Jewish roots accused of apuppeteeringa Russian leaders of apuppeteeringa Russian leader. Article by Lev Krichevsky, 'j. the Jewish news weekly', Friday, May 28, 1999. Retrieved: 21 June 2013. , ^ "DDDNDD D DNDDDND: "DDDDDDD NDDDDDD, N DDNDNDDD DD DNDDN NDDNDDN DDDDDD, DD DNNN DDNDDDDD DDDDDDD DND DDDDDNNN. " ". "DDND". 1996. Archived from the original on 2012-05-30 . Retrieved 06.05.2012 . Check date values in: accessdate= (help) , ^ Janine R. Wedel. 2009. "Shadow Elite", Basic Books, Page 16. , ^ a b c d Anatoly Chubais Rusnano , ^ Privatization in Russia: its past, present, and future SAM Advanced Management Journal, 1 January 2003. , ^ Development Committee Endorses MIGA's Capital Increase MIGA News , ^ Yeltsin chief of staff wields much power Herald-Journal , 29 September 1996. , ^ The manager behind Yeltsin Aide: The Russian president's chief of staff is not particularly liked, even by his allies, but his power is widely respected The Baltimore Sun , 5 December 1996. , ^ 1998 Bilderberg Conference - 14-17th May, Turnberry, Ayrshire, Scotland Bilderberg Conferences. , ^ RAO UES CEO Antatoly Chubais Chairs of CIS Electric Power Council's Meeting for the Last Time RAO UES Press Department News Release, 23 May 2008. , ^ Powering Modern Russia Power Engineering International magazine, 22 May 2013. , ^ a b Company profile. History of the reform THE ANNUAL REPORT RAO "UES OF RUSSIA" 2007. , ^ DDNNDDN DDDD 2007 Vedomosti.ru. , ^ OAO RAO "UES of Russia" Ceases to Exist as a Separate Legal Entity RAO UES Press Department News Release1 July, 2008. , ^ Q and A with Anatoly Chubais - WSJ , ^ Russiaas hi-tech looks for cash RT, April 05, 2012. , ^ State Corporation RUSNANO Reorganized as Open Joint-Stock Company RUSNANO News 11 March 2011. , ^ "DNDNNDDND DDNDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDD DDDNDDDD". Lenta.ru . 21 August 2010. , ^ a b c Anatoly Chubais appointed as Director General of the Russian Corporation of Nanotechnologies RUSNANO News. , ^ Russian Reformer's Credibility Undercut by Scandal The New York Times, November 17, 1997. , ^ Brief Introduction to the Ye.T. Gaidar Institute for Economic Policy Gaidar Institute for Economic Policy , ^ Finance Minister of the Year 1997: Chubais forces the paceEuromoney, September, 1997. , ^ RUSNANO CEO Anatoly Chubais awarded with the Order of Merit for the Fatherland IV class Rusnano news 21 June 2010 , External links [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Anatoly Chubais ., Commanding Heights: Anatoly Chubais on PBS, Father to the Oligarchs by Arkady Ostrovsky, Financial Times, 13 November 2004, Rusnet Encyclopedia, Russia Profile Who's Who, Russia's Regent by Paul Quinn-Judge, Time, 9 December 1996., . 
Precededby
Mikhail Maley , Head of the Russian State Property Committee 
November 10, 1991, a November 5, 1994, Succeededby
Vladimir Polevanov , Precededby
Nikolay Yegorov , Chief of the Russian presidential administration 
July 15, 1996, a March 7, 1997, Succeededby
Valentin Yumashev , Precededby
Boris Brevnov , Chairman of RAO UES 
30 April 1998 - 1 July 2008, Succeededby
Company ceased to exist , Precededby
Leonid Melamed , Director General of Russian Nanotechnology Corporation 
since 22 September 2008, Succeededby
Incumbent , v , t , e , . Finance Ministers of Russia , Boris Fyodorov, Igor Lazarev, Yegor Gaidar, Vasily Barchuk, Boris Fyodorov, Sergei Dubinin (Acting) , Andrey Vavilov (Acting) , Vladimir Panskov, Alexander Livshitz, Anatoly Chubais , Mikhail Zadornov, Mikhail Kasyanov, Alexei Kudrin, Anton Siluanov, . , Soviet Union, Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic, . , Persondata Name, Chubais, Anatoly, Alternative names, Short description, Russian politician, Date of birth, June 16, 1955, Place of birth, Barysaw, Belorussian SSR, Soviet Union, Date of death, Place of death, Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Anatoly_Chubais and oldid=627330369" Categories: 1955 births, Living people, Finance ministers of Russia, Members of the State Duma of the Russian Federation, People from Barysaw, Russian businesspeople, Russian politicians, Russian people of Jewish descent, Russian people of Belarusian descent, Russian people of Lithuanian descent, Communist Party of the Soviet Union members, Union of Right Forces politicians, Russian liberals, . Hidden categories: Pages using duplicate arguments in template calls, Articles with Russian-language external links, CS1 errors: dates, Articles containing Russian-language text, Commons category template with no category set, Commons category with page title same as on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, DNDDDNNDD, AeAtina, Deutsch, Eesti, EspaAol, FranAais, Italiano, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Polski, PortuguAs, DNNNDDD, DNDNDD / srpski, Suomi, Svenska, DDNDNDNNDD, Tiang Viat, . Edit links This page was last modified on 27 September 2014 at 22:12.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
