
Politics of Aland - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of Aland 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (March 2010) , Aland , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Aland , Governor Peter LindbAck , Government Premier: Camilla Gunell , Lagting (parliament) Speaker: Britt Lundberg , Political parties, Recent elections Legislative: 2011, 2007, . , Administrative divisions, State Department, Aland in the Finnish Parliament, . , See also Politics of Finland, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , Politics of the Aland Islands takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic autonomous, demilitarised and unilingually Swedish territory of Finland, whereby the LantrAd is the head of government, and of a multi-party system.
The Aland Islands are governed according to the Act on Aland Autonomy and international treaties, which guarantees autonomy and demilitarized status. The Government of Aland, or Landskapsregering , is dependent on the Parliament of Aland, or Lagting , according to the principles of parliamentarism.
In 1634, Aland was made part of the Abo and BjArneborg County as a part of the grand administrative reforms initiated by count Axel Oxenstierna. The county became part of the Russian Empire within the Grand Duchy of Finland in 1809, when Sweden was forced to cede vast areas in the Napoleonic Wars. When Finland declared its independence in 1917, the newly established state inherited the Aland islands.
During the Civil War in 1918, some Russian troops were still stationed on the islands, causing serious instability and nervousness. This anxiety in the local population, and in the other Scandinavian states, resulted in a Swedish occupation and 7, 135 people (of a total population of approximately 22, 500 at the time) signing the address for Aland joining the kingdom of Sweden. The fear of Russia finally resulted in a German occupation of the islands. In the mean time, the Finnish press was playing with the idea of an exchange of land areas between Sweden and Finland. The areas in question of this exchange would have been the Swedish speaking Aland to Sweden and some Finnish speaking areas of Norrbotten and VAsterbotten to Finland. The response from the Swedish government was bluntly negative to any exchanges of this nature.
In 1921 the question of Aland was brought to the council of League of Nations. The council decided unanimously, that the islands would remain under Finland's sovereignty, but stated that the native population's rights to their own language had to be preserved, that the area had to stay demilitarized and that Aland was granted autonomy during peace time. [ 1 ] 
Aland has its own national flag, has issued its own postage stamps since 1984, has its own police force, and is a member of the Nordic Council. The islands are demilitarised, and the male population is exempted from conscription. Parliamentarism has been the custom since 1988. The Aland autonomy preceded the creation of the Regions of Finland, but the autonomous government of Aland also handles what the regional councils do.
The Aland Islands during the Crimean War. 
The sovereignty over Aland belongs to Finland, and Aland is thus not independent. The Aland Islands are guaranteed representation in the Finnish parliament, and elect one representative.
Contents
1 Executive branch , 2 Legislative branch , 3 Political parties and elections , 4 Local government , 5 See also , 6 References , 7 External links , . 
Executive branch [ edit ] 
The Parliament of Aland 
Main office holders Office Name Party Since LantrAd Camilla Gunell, AS, 2011, Other Government parties, MA, Obs, AC, Aland does not only have its own Government of Aland ( Alands Landskapsregering ), there is also a Aland State Provincial Office ( LAnsstyrelsen pA Aland ), led by a governor, Peter LindbAck.
Legislative branch [ edit ] 
The Parliament of Aland ( Lagtinget , which means Law Thing) has 30 members, elected for a four year term by proportional representation.
Political parties and elections [ edit ] 
For other political parties see List of political parties in Aland. An overview on elections and election results is included in Elections in Aland. 
ead Summary of the 16 October 2011 Parliament of Aland election results Parties , Votes th> Seats 2011 +/a 2011 +/a 2011 +/a Aland Centre (Alands Center), 3, 068, a39, 23.0, a1.2, 7, a1, Liberals for Aland (Liberalerna pA Aland), 2, 630, a1, 546, 19.7, a12.9, 6, a4, Aland Social Democrats (Alands Socialdemokrater), 2, 404, +891, 18.0, +6.2, 6, +3, Moderates of Aland (Moderaterna pA Aland), 1, 810, +577, 13.5, +3.9, 4, +1, Non-aligned Coalition (Obunden Samling), 1, 639, +66, 12.3, A0.0, 4, A0, Future of Aland (Alands Framtid), 1, 286, +216, 9.6, +1.3, 3, +1, Election Association for Henrik Appelqvist (ValmansfArening fAr Henrik Appelqvist), 138, a, 1.0, a, 0, a, Total (turnout 66.9/td> 13, 360 , 100.0 , 30 , A0, Sources: JCI Mariehamn, Local government [ edit ] 
Municipalities of Aland, or Kommuner , . 
See also [ edit ] 
Politics of Finland, Ting, Swedish Assembly of Finland, or Folktinget , . 
References [ edit ] 
^ THE ALAND AGREEMENT IN THE COUNCIL OF THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS 1921, MINUTES OF THE SEVENTEENTH MEETING OF THE COUNCIL, JUNE 27TH (archived link) , External links [ edit ] 
Lagtinget - Official site, Landskapsregeringen - Official site, Act on Aland Autonomy - at Lagtinget, . 
v , t , e , . Politics of Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland , Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_Aland and oldid=572688717" Categories: Politics of the Aland Islands, . Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from March 2010, All articles needing additional references, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
Magyar, Suomi, Svenska, . Edit links This page was last modified on 12 September 2013 at 23:41.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
