
Russian ballet - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Russian ballet 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search A performance of Giselle, ou Les Wilis 
Russian ballet is a form of ballet characteristic of or originating from Russia.
Contents
1 Imperial Russian Ballet , 2 Ballets Russes , 3 Ballet Companies , 4 Methods , 5 Notable Dancers , 6 Notable Performances , 7 See also , 8 References , 9 Bibliography , 10 External links , . 
Imperial Russian Ballet [ edit ] 
Until 1689, ballet in Russia was nonexistent. The Tsarist control and isolationism in Russia allowed for little influence from the West. While the West went through the revolutions of athe Reformation, the Renaissance, and scienceaRussia remained cut off and bound up in the timeless liturgies of the Orthodox faitha. [ 1 ] It wasn't until the rise of Peter the Great that Russian society opened up to the West. St. Petersburg was erected to embrace the West and compete against Moscowas backwardness. Yet the challenge to become aEuropeana collided with the reality of Russian isolationism: aIn striking contrast to their west European counterparts, the Russian elite lived unadorned lives: in wooden houses and slept on benches (or on top of the warm stove) and their clothing and manners resembled those of peasants: rough and indecorous. Men coveted long and bushy black beards, which they took to be a sign of godliness and masculinity (God was bearded and women couldn't grow one). Only demons were depicted as clean-shaven. Fancy foreign dress was prohibited, and foreigners living in Moscow were quarantined in their own aGerman Suburb, a a ghetto of European culture coveted by a few and dismissed by most. Muscovite society was not society in any form recognizable in the West. [ 2 ] 
Peter the Great created a new Russia which rivaled the society of the West with magnificent courts and palaces. His vision was not to bring Russia to the West, but to bring the West to Russia. He created a court system like that in the West through legal edicts and strict rules. In the West art was an evidence of cultural freedom, but in Russia it was a deliberately controlled expression and advancement. aThe rules were carefully laid out in The Honorable Mirror of Youth , a compilation of Western courtesy books designed to educate courtiers in the intricacies of refined behavior, including dancing.a [ 3 ] Classical ballet entered the realm of Russia not as entertainment, but as a astandard of physical comportment to be emulated and internalized-an idealized way of behaving.a [ 4 ] The aim wasnat to entertain the masses of Russians, but to create a cultivated and new Russian people.
In the early 19th century, the theaters were opened up to anyone who could afford a ticket. There was a seating section called a rayok, or 'paradise gallery', that consisted of simple wooden benches. This allowed non-wealthy people access to the ballet, because tickets in this section were inexpensive. [ 5 ] 
One author describes the Imperial ballet as aunlike that of any other country in the worldathe most prestigious of the ballet troupes were those attached to the state-supported theatres. The directors of these companies were personally appointed by the tsar, and all the dancers were, in a sense, Imperial servants. In the theatre, the men in the audience always remained standing until the tsar entered his box and, out of respect, after the performance they remained in their places until he had departed. Curtain calls were arranged according to a strict pattern: first, the ballerina bowed to the tsaras box, then to that of the theater director, and finally to the general public. [ 6 ] 
Ballets Russes [ edit ] 
By the early 1900as the Russian ballet went beyond its borders and infiltrated Paris. It had become its own force and was distinctly Russian, while still being embraced by the Parisian society. In 1903 Ivan Clustine, a Russian dancer and choreographer who had started his career at the Bolshoi Theatre, was appointed MaAtre de ballet at the Paris Opera. [ 7 ] Clustine's hiring promoted a frenzy of questions about his nationality and choreographic agenda: aHis hiring was thought a direct attempt by the Opera to imitate the Russian company; even he thought as much, maintaining, not without despondency, that inspiration too often came from the north: aA revolution! A method that people often apply in the country of the tsars.a Clustine, although acknowledging his nationality with pride, harbored none of the revolutionary intentions that some thought an inevitable consequence of being Russian.a [ 8 ] 
The Parisians while denying adoption of the backwards Russian troupe had distinct Russian influence in their theater. aDespite Clustineas protestations, several features of the Operaas post-1909 ballets, along with its institutional conventions and balletic policy, appeared to betray a Russian influence.a [ 9 ] The stigma of Russian brutality and force was applied even in Paris. While their style was being not only accepted in Paris, but implemented in Paris theaters the Ballets Russes were still considered dangerous, even in the theatre of performing art. aThe Ballets Russes, at base, became a metaphor for invasion, an eternal force that could engulf and control, could penetrate the membrane of French society, culture and even art itself.a [ 10 ] The embracing of Russian ballet in the Paris society became a point of contention and French nationalism collided with Russian determination. Questions arose about the Russian intention in the Paris theaters under the title acultural politicsa including athe delimitation of boundaries, the preservation of identity and the nature of relational engagements.a [ 11 ] Russia was incapable of simply bringing Russian culture to the West, but created a paranoia of intentions wherever they went. In the beginning the relationship between Russia and France through the arts was a testimony to their political allegiances. aFrench critics acknowledged a shared choreographic heritage: French ballet had migrated to Russia in the nineteenth century, only to return, decades later, under the guise of the Ballets Russes. The company, then, moored in a history that intertwined both nations, not only contributed to a cultural programme of exchange. The Ballets Russes were a testament to Franco-Russian cooperation, goodwill and support; they represented aun nouveau resserrement de laalliancea (a further strengthening of the alliance).a [ 12 ] However, the relationship made a negative turn when duplicity amongst the alliance arose. While Russia continued to borrow money from the French banks, athe Russians no longer interested in supporting French culture and colonial politics.a This duplicity gave fuel for the paranoia and lack of trust we see in the relationship concerning the arts. The Parisian press spoke of The Ballets Russes in terms of both aenchantementa, abouleversementa and afantaisiea. Yet they also invoked metaphors of invasion, describing the companyas Parisian presence in terms of aassauta (onslaught) and aconquetea (conquest).a [ 13 ] The dual faceted relationship can be seen in this expression of both enrapture and contention. One French journalist, Maurice Lefevre, called on his fellow Parisianas to see the reality of the Russian invasion as though it were an infestation, aWe need to do some soul-searching and ask whether our guests are not about to become our masters.a [ 14 ] To imply that Russia was about to take France over through performing arts seems to be irrational, but evidence would suggest the fears were real amongst those in Paris.
Ballet Companies [ edit ] 
The first ballet company was the Imperial School of Ballet in St. Petersburg in the 1740s. The Ballets Russes was a ballet company founded in the 1909 by Sergey Diaghilev, an enormously important figure in the Russian ballet scene. The headquarters of his ballet company was located in Paris, France. A protAgA of Diaghilev, George Balanchine, founded the New York City Ballet in 1948. Today, the Kirov Ballet company (now known as the Mariinsky Ballet) and the Bolshoi company are two world-renowned Russian ballet companies that tour the world. [ 15 ] 
Mariinsky Ballet (formerly Kirov ballet), Bolshoi Ballet, . 
Other Russian ballet companies include:
Ballets Russes, founded in 1909, Moscow State Academy of Choreography, commonly known as The Bolshoi Ballet Academy, founded in 1773, Vaganova Academy of Russian Ballet, founded in 1738 as the Imperial Ballet School, Saint Petersburg Eifman Ballet, founded in 1977, Mikhailovsky Theatre Ballet, founded in 1930s, Perm Theatre Ballet, founded in 1896, Novosibirsk Theatre Ballet, founded in 1945, Russian State Ballet of Siberia, founded in 1978, Amande Concerts, founded in 1999, . 
There are also a number of companies who have been called, or included in their name, Moscow Ballet .
Methods [ edit ] 
There are several methods of ballet in Russian ballet. The most widely used is the Vaganova method, named after the ballerina and teacher, Agrippina Vaganova. [ 16 ] 
Notable Dancers [ edit ] 
Anna Pavlova was one of the most celebrated dancers of her time 
Many Russian dancers have gone on to reach worldwide acclaim; notable Russian dancers include:
Nina Ananiashvili, Altynai Asylmuratova, Mikhail Baryshnikov, Natalia Bessmertnova, Vakhtang Chabukiani, Natalia Dudinskaya, Nikolai Fadeyechev, Alexander Godunov, Tamara Karsavina, Mathilde Kschessinska, Olga Lepeshinskaya, Larissa Lezhnina, Maris Liepa, Ulyana Lopatkina, Lydia Lopokova, Natalia Makarova, Vladimir Malakhov, LAonide Massine, Ekaterina Maximova, Galina Mezentseva, Mikhail Mordkin, Irek Mukhamedov, Vaslav Nijinsky, Rudolf Nureyev, Alla Osipenko, Anna Pavlova, Maya Plisetskaya, Olga Preobrajenska, Farukh Ruzimatov, Marina Semenova, Polina Semionova, Konstantin Sergeyev, Olga Spesivtseva, Galina Ulanova, Vladimir Vasiliev, Diana Vishneva, Svetlana Zakharova, Ekaterina Krysanova, . 
Notable Performances [ edit ] 
Romeo and Juliet (Prokofiev), Cinderella (Prokofiev), The Nutcracker, Swan Lake, The Sleeping Beauty (ballet), . 
See also [ edit ] 
Mariinsky Ballet, Bolshoi Ballet, Vaganova method, Brighton Ballet Theater, Glossary of ballet terms, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ Homans (2010), 244. , ^ Homans (2010), 244. , ^ Homans (2010), 244. , ^ Homans (2010), 244. , ^ Roslavleva, Natalia. Era of the Russian Ballet , ^ Anderson (1992), 101. , ^ Roslavleva (1966), 154-55 , ^ Davinia Caddy, The Ballets Russes and Beyond: Music and Dance in Belle-Epoque Paris (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2012), 34. , ^ Caddy (2012), 34. , ^ Caddy (2012), 34. , ^ Caddy (2012), 34. , ^ Davinia Caddy, The Ballets Russes and Beyond: Music and Dance in Belle-Epoque Paris (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2012), 34. , ^ Davinia Caddy, The Ballets Russes and Beyond: Music and Dance in Belle-Epoque Paris (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2012), 34. , ^ Davinia Caddy, The Ballets Russes and Beyond: Music and Dance in Belle-Epoque Paris (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2012), 34. , ^ Curtis, Glenn E. Russia: A Country Study , ^ Willia-Aarnio, Peggy. Agrippina Vaganova (1879-1951): Her Place in the History of Ballet and Her Impact on the Future of Classical Dance , Bibliography [ edit ] 
Anderson, Jack. (1992). Ballet and Modern Dance: A Concise History. New Jersey: Princeton Book Company., Caddy, Davinia. (2012). The Ballets Russes and Beyond: Music and Dance in Belle-Epoque Paris. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press., Curtis, Glenn E, ed. (1996). Russia: A Country Study. Washington: GPO for the Library of Congress., Homans, Jennifer, (2010). Apollo's Angels: A History of Ballet. New York: Random House., Roslavleva, Natalia. (1966). Era of the Russian Ballet, New York: E.P. Dutton and Co., Inc., Willis-Aarino, Peggy. (2002). Agrippina Vaganova (1879a1951): Her Place in the History of Ballet and Her Impact on the Future of Classical Dance, Lewiston, New York: Edwin Mellen Press., . 
External links [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Ballet of Russia ., Russian ballet, Russian Ballet Company, The Pennsylvania Academy of Ballet, a Vaganova method school, BBT/School of Russian American Ballet in Brooklyn, NY, USA, The Russian Ballet Academy of Indiana, a professional Vaganova method school, Russian ballet today: Who's who in Russian ballet - a professional community website with discussions, video channel, photos etc, . 
v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet , Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Ballet , General information Ballets, Companies, Glossary, History, Music, Schools, Timeline, . , Ballet terminology Ballet d'action, Barre, Ballet blanc, Comic ballet, Contemporary ballet, Ballets de cour, Demi-soloist, Divertissement, Narrative ballet, Neoclassical ballet, OpAra-ballet, Pas de deux, Pas de quatre, Pas de trois, PiAce d'occasion, Pointe shoe, Romantic ballet, Turnout, Variation, . , Ballet by genre Character, Classical, Contemporary, Neoclassical, . , Ballet by region Azerbaijani, British, French, Italian, Russian , . , Dancers American, British, French, Russian, . , Technique Balanchine, Bournonville, Cecchetti, Royal Academy, Vaganova, . , Ballet apparel Ballet shoe, Dance belt, Leotard, Pointe shoe, Tights, Tutu, Unitard, . , Ballet portal Did you know?, Recent news, Today's article, Today's biography, Today's news, Today's picture, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Russian_ballet and oldid=629460417" Categories: Russian ballet, Ballet styles, History of ballet, . Hidden categories: Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
FranAais, DNNNDDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 13 October 2014 at 17:11.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
