
Banking in Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Banking in Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Banking in Russia is subject to significant regulations as banks in the Russian Federation have to meet mandatory Russian legislation requirements, and comply with numerous Bank of Russia instructions and regulations.
Contents
1 History 1.1 Soviet period , 1.2 Russian period , 1.3 1998 financial crisis , 1.4 Post 1998 reforms , 1.5 2008 financial crisis , 1.6 2010s , . , 2 Credit and Debit cards , 3 Sanctions , 4 Banks , 5 References , 6 External links , . 
History [ edit ] 
Soviet period [ edit ] 
, This section is empty. You can help by adding to it. (September 2014) , Russian period [ edit ] 
The modern Russia inherited the banking system of the Soviet Union, with a few big state banks (like Sberbank, Vneshekonombank, and Vneshtorgbank). After more than 15 years of reforms in Russia, there are now 1183 financial institutions with 3286 regional branches. [ 1 ] 
1998 financial crisis [ edit ] 
Main article: 1998 Russian financial crisis 
, This section is empty. You can help by adding to it. (September 2014) , Post 1998 reforms [ edit ] 
, This section is empty. You can help by adding to it. (September 2014) , 2008 financial crisis [ edit ] 
Main article: 2008a2009 Russian financial crisis 
Beginning in early October 2008, several Russian banks failed due to liquidity issues related to US credit derivatives. Russian bank Globex barred customers from withdrawing money from their accounts October 15, 2008, in the first bank run of the current global economic crisis.
2010s [ edit ] 
In June 2013 Elvira Nabiullina was appointed to the chairman of the Central Bank of Russia. [ 2 ] In an interview with television channel Channel one she said Russiaas Central Bank has no blacklists of banks subject to license revocation. She added that the Central Bank will not warn any bank about such measures. She said "As a matter of fact, no one knows who might be the next, We cannot warn anyone. Moreover, it would be wrong to do that. I know not a single country worldwide where the central banks would warn about license revocation. It is not ruled out that in case a bank is warned, a mala fide owner or managers could divert assets, making settlements with closest clients, so a rank and file depositor will finally receive much less money". [ 3 ] 
And so, in December 2013 Central Bank of Russia revoked licenses of three commercial banks, Investbank, Smolensky Bank and the Bank of Project Finance. [ 4 ] State-run Agency for depositsa insurance paid money to clients. [ 5 ] 
Credit and Debit cards [ edit ] 
At the end of 2008, there were 119 million bank cards in circulation in Russia. [ 6 ] 
Sanctions [ edit ] 
On March 2014, amidst the 2014 Crimean crisis, following the passage of a secession referendum, the declaration of independence of the Republic of Crimea from Ukraine and the process of accession to Russia that followed it, U.S President Barack Obama announced sanctions on Rossiya Bank. International payment systems Visa Inc. and MasterCard suddenly stopped service of credit cards issued by the Rossiya Bank. Non-cash transactions of SMP Bank (owned by Rottenberg brothers) and Sobinbank (100ubsidiary of Rossiya) were also frozen. [ 7 ] 
Banks [ edit ] 
Largest banks in Russia in terms of net assets (trillions of rubles) as of Dec. 1, 2013: [ 8 ] 
Sberbank- 15.8, VTB- 5.2, Gazprombank- 3.5, VTB-24- 2, Rosselkhozbank- 1.8, Bank of Moscow- 1.8, Alfa Bank- 1.4, Nomos Bank- 0.8, Unicredit- 0.8, Rosbank- 0.7, Promsvyazbank- 0.7, Raiffeisenbank- 0.7, . Further information: List of banks in Russia 
References [ edit ] 
^ Statistics on the site of the Bank of Russia , ^ "Central Bank Cancels 3 More Bank Licenses". Moscow Times . Retrieved 14 December 2013 . , ^ "Russiaas Central Bank has no blacklists of banks subject to license revocation - governor". ITAR TASS . Retrieved 14 December 2013 . , ^ "Russiaas Central Bank revokes licenses of 3 commercial banks". Itar Tass . Retrieved 14 December 2013 . , ^ "Agency for depositsa insurance starts paying clients of banks whose licenses were revoked". Itar Tass . Retrieved 14 December 2013 . , ^ http://www.cbr.ru/eng/publ/BBS/Bbs0905e.pdf , ^ "Bank Rossiya Is First Russian Lender Under U.S. Sanctions". Bloomberg . 20 March 2014 . Retrieved 21 March 2014 . , ^ "State Boosts Grip on Economy With Bank Crackdown". The Moscow Times . Retrieved 25 December 2013 . , External links [ edit ] 
Bank of Russia, Russia Banking News, News, . 
v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking , Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Banking in Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia , Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . Banking in Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , v , t , e , . Economy of Russia , History Soviet Union, Privatization, 1998 financial crisis, Monetary reforms in Russia (1991, 1993, 1998), National Priority Projects, National champions, Stabilization Fund, Great Recession in Russia, Medvedev modernisation programme, Timeline of largest projects, . , Natural resources Timber, Mining, Aluminium, Oil reserves, Energy, Nuclear power, Geothermal power, Renewable energy, . , Agriculture Fishery, Hunting, Forestry, . , Industry Engineering, (Aircraft, Automotive, Tractor, timber and agricultural machinery, Defence, Shipbuilding, Space industry, Rolling stock manufacturers), Metallurgy, (Pipe Industry), Petroleum industry, Chemical industry, Science and technology, Food industry, . , Infrastructure Telecommunications, Transport Rail, Vehicle registration plates, . , . , Services Grocery retailing, Tourism, Gambling, Real estate, . , Finance Russian ruble, Account Chamber, Banking (Banks , Central Bank of Russia) , Federal budget, Moscow Exchange, National Pension Fund, Social Insurance Fund, Tax Code, Billionaires, . , Regional economies Natural resources of Primorsky Krai, Federal subjects by GRP, Federal subjects by GDP per capita, Federal subjects by HDI, Federal subjects by unemployment rate, . , Economic regions Central, Ural, North Caucasus, Volga, West Siberian, East Siberian, Volga-Vyatka, Northwestern, Central Black Earth, Far Eastern, Northern, . , Other Companies, Trade unions, . , Category, Commons, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Banking_in_Russia and oldid=625226053" Categories: Banking in Russia, . Hidden categories: Articles to be expanded from September 2014, All articles to be expanded, Articles with empty sections from September 2014, All articles with empty sections, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DNNNDDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 12 September 2014 at 11:40.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
