
Boris Yeltsin - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Boris Yeltsin 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search "Yeltsin" redirects here. For other uses, see Yeltsin (disambiguation). This name uses Eastern Slavic naming customs; the patronymic is Nikolayevich and the family name is Yeltsin . 
, This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . 
, This article is missing information about the legacy of Boris Yeltsin . Please expand the article to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page. (May 2014) , This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2010) , Boris Yeltsin 
DDNDN DDNNDD , 1st President of Russia In office 
10 July 1991a 31 December 1999, Prime Minister Yegor Gaidar 1992 
Viktor Chernomyrdin 1992a1998 
Sergey Kiriyenko 1998 
Yevgeny Primakov 1998a1999 
Sergei Stepashin 1999 
Vladimir Putin 1999 , Vice President Alexander Rutskoy (1991a1993) , Preceded by Office established , Succeeded by Vladimir Putin, Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the RSFSR In office 
29 May 1990a 10 July 1991, Preceded by Vitaly Vorotnikov, Succeeded by Ruslan Khasbulatov (acting), First Secretary of the Moscow City Committee of the Communist Party In office 
23 December 1985a 11 November 1987, Preceded by Viktor Grishin, Succeeded by Lev Zaykov, Candidate member of the 26th, 27th Politburo In office 
18 February 1986a 24 February 1988, Member of the 26th Secretariat In office 
1 July 1985a 6 March 1986, Full member of the 26th, 27th Central Committee In office 
3 March 1981a 12 July 1990, Personal details Born Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin
DDNDN DDDDDDDDDN DDNNDD 
1 February 1931
Butka, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Died 23 April 2007 ( 2007-04-23 ) (aged76)
Moscow, Russia, Nationality Russian, Political party Independent (after 1990) , Other political
affiliations Communist Party of the Soviet Union (1961-1990) , Spouse(s) Naina Yeltsina, Children Tatyana Borisovna Dyachenko
Elena Borisovna Okulova, Alma mater Ural State Technical University, Religion Russian Orthodoxy [ 1 ] , Signature , Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin (Russian: DDNDIN DDDDDDIDDDN DIDNNDD ; IPA: [bEErEis nEEkEElaEvEEtE EjelEtsEn] ( listen ) ; 1February 1931 a 23 April 2007) was a Russian politician and the first President of the Russian Federation, serving from 1991 to 1999.
Originally a supporter of Mikhail Gorbachev, Yeltsin emerged under the perestroika reforms as one of Gorbachev's most powerful political opponents. On 29 May 1990 he was elected the chairman of the Russian Supreme Soviet. On 12 June 1991 he was elected by popular vote to the newly created post of President of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (SFSR), at that time one of the 15 constituent republics of the Soviet Union. Upon the resignation of Mikhail Gorbachev and the final dissolution of the Soviet Union on 25 December 1991, Yeltsin remained in office as the President of the Russian Federation, the USSR's successor state. Yeltsin was reelected in the 1996 election; in the second round he defeated Gennady Zyuganov from the revived Communist Party by a margin of 13However, Yeltsin never recovered his early popularity after a series of economic and political crises in Russia in the 1990s.
He vowed to transform Russia's socialist command economy into a free market economy and implemented economic shock therapy, price liberalization and privatization programs. Due to the method of privatization, a good deal of the national wealth fell into the hands of a small group of oligarchs. [ 2 ] Much of the Yeltsin era was marked by widespread corruption, inflation, economic collapse and enormous political and social problems that affected Russia and the other former states of the USSR. Within the first few years of his presidency, many of Yeltsin's political supporters turned against him and Vice President Alexander Rutskoy denounced the reforms as "economic genocide". [ 3 ] 
Ongoing confrontations with the Supreme Soviet climaxed in the October 1993 Russian constitutional crisis in which Yeltsin illegally ordered the dissolution of the parliament, which then attempted to remove him from office. The military eventually sided with Yeltsin and besieged and shelled the Russian White House, resulting in the deaths of 187 people. [ clarification needed ] Yeltsin then scrapped the existing constitution, temporarily banned political opposition and deepened his economic experimentation. He introduced a new constitution with stronger presidential power and it was approved by referendum on 12 December 1993 with 58.5f voters in favour. [ citation needed ] 
On 31 December 1999, Yeltsin made a surprise announcement of his resignation, leaving the presidency in the hands of his chosen successor, then-Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. Described by the BBC as the aflawed founder of Russian democracya, [ 4 ] Yeltsin left office widely unpopular with the Russian population. [ 5 ] 
Contents
1 Early life and education , 2 Communist Party membership , 3 Moscow , 4 Rebel , 5 President of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic , 6 President of the Russian Federation 6.1 Yeltsin's first term 6.1.1 Radical reforms , 6.1.2 Confrontation with parliament , 6.1.3 Chechnya , 6.1.4 Privatization and the rise of "the oligarchs" , 6.1.5 Korean Air Lines Flight 007 , 6.1.6 1996 presidential election , . , 6.2 Yeltsin's second term 6.2.1 Resignation , . , . , 7 Illness , 8 Life after resignation , 9 Death and funeral , 10 Memorials , 11 Honours and awards , 12 Bibliography , 13 See also , 14 References , 15 External links , . 
Early life and education [ edit ] 
Boris Yeltsin (second from left) with childhood friends 
Boris Yeltsin was born in the village of Butka, Talitsky District, Sverdlovsk, USSR, on 1 February 1931. [ 6 ] In 1932 after the state took away the entire harvest from the recently collectivised Butka peasants the Yeltsin family moved as far away as they could, to Kazan, more than 1, 100 kilometres from Butka, where Boris' father, Nikolai, found work on a construction site. Growing up in rural Sverdlovsk, he studied at the Ural State Technical University (now Urals Polytechnic Institute), and began his career in the construction industry. [ 7 ] In 1934 Nikolai Yeltsin was convicted of anti-Soviet agitation and sentenced to hard labour in a gulag for three years. [ 8 ] 
Following his release in 1936 after serving two years, Nikolai took his family to live in Berezniki in Perm Krai, where his brother Ivan, a blacksmith, had been exiled the year before for failing to deliver his grain quota. [ 9 ] Nikolai remained unemployed for a period of time and then worked again in construction. His mother, Klavdiya Vasilyevna Yeltsina, worked as a seamstress. Boris studied at Pushkin High School in Berezniki. He was fond of sports (in particular skiing, gymnastics, volleyball, track and field, boxing and wrestling) despite losing the thumb and index finger of his left hand when he and some friends furtively entered a Red Army supply depot, stole several grenades, and tried to disassemble them. [ 10 ] 
In 1949 he was admitted to the Ural Polytechnic Institute in Sverdlovsk, majoring in construction, and he graduated in 1955. The subject of his degree paper was "Construction of a Mine Shaft". [ 11 ] From 1955 to 1957 he worked as a foreman with the building trust Uraltyazhtrubstroy. From 1957 to 1963 he worked in Sverdlovsk, and was promoted from construction site superintendent to chief of the Construction Directorate with the Yuzhgorstroy Trust. In 1963 he became chief engineer, and in 1965 head of the Sverdlovsk House-Building Combine, responsible for sewerage and technical plumbing. He joined the ranks of the CPSU nomenklatura in 1968 when he was appointed head of construction with the Sverdlovsk Regional Party Committee. In 1975 he became secretary of the regional committee in charge of the region's industrial development. In 1976 the Politburo of the CPSU promoted him to the post of the first secretary of the CPSU Committee of Sverdlovsk Oblast (effectively he became the head of one of the most important industrial regions in the USSR); he remained in this position until 1985. [ citation needed ] 
Communist Party membership [ edit ] 
Yeltsin was a member of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU) from 17 March 1961 [ 12 ] to 13 July 1990, [ 13 ] and a nomenklatura member from 1968.
In 1977, as a party official in Sverdlovsk, Yeltsin was ordered by Moscow to destroy the Ipatiev House where the last Russian tsar had been killed by Bolshevik troops. The Ipatiev House was demolished in one night on 27 July 1977. [ 14 ] Also during Yeltsin's time in Sverdlovsk, a CPSU palace was built which was named "White Tooth" by the residents. [ 15 ] During this time, Yeltsin developed connections with key people in the Soviet power structure. In January 1981 Yeltsin was awarded the Order of Lenin, the Soviet Union's highest medal, for 'the service to the Communist Party and the Soviet State and in connection with the 50th birthday'. [ 6 ] In March 1981 Yeltsin was elected as a full member of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. [ 6 ] 
Moscow [ edit ] 
On 11 March 1985, Mikhail Gorbachev was elected General Secretary of the CPSU by the Politburo after the death of Konstantin Chernenko. Gorbachev's primary goal was to revive the Soviet economy; however, he soon realized that fixing the Soviet economy would be nearly impossible without reforming the political and social structure of the USSR. [ 16 ] To begin these reforms he immediately began gathering in Moscow a younger and more energetic governing team of Communist Party members. On 4 April 1985 Yeltsin received a call from Gorbachev's leading protege Yegor Ligachev summoning him to Moscow to take up position as Head of the Construction Department of the Party's Central Committee. [ 17 ] Less than three months later he was promoted to be Secretary for Construction of the Central Committee, a position within the powerful CPSU Central Committee Secretariat. [ 6 ] 
On 23 December 1985, Mikhail Gorbachev appointed Yeltsin First Secretary of the CPSU Moscow City Committee, effectively 'Mayor' of the Soviet capital, and as a result, on 18 February 1986, Yeltsin was invited to become a Candidate (non-voting) Member of the Politburo. As a politburo member Yeltsin was also given a country house (dacha) which was previously occupied by Gorbachev who now moved to a much bigger and more luxurious purpose built dacha nearby. During this period, Yeltsin portrayed himself as a reformer and populist (for example, he took a trolleybus to work), firing and reshuffling his staff several times. He became popular among Moscow residents for firing corrupt Moscow party officials.
Rebel [ edit ] 
Boris Yeltsin with Raisa Gorbacheva. 
On 10 September 1987, after a lecture from hard-liner Yegor Ligachev at the Politburo for allowing two small unsanctioned demonstrations on Moscow streets, Yeltsin wrote a letter of resignation to Gorbachev who was holidaying on the Black Sea. [ 18 ] When Gorbachev received the letter he was stunned a nobody in Soviet history had voluntarily resigned from the ranks of the Politburo. Gorbachev phoned Yeltsin and asked him to reconsider.
On 27 October 1987 at the plenary meeting of the Central Committee of the CPSU, Yeltsin, frustrated that Gorbachev had not addressed any of the issues outlined in his resignation letter asked to speak. He expressed his discontent with both the slow pace of reform in society, the servility shown to the General Secretary, and opposition to him from Ligachev making his position untenable, before requesting to resign from the Politburo, adding that the City Committee would decide whether he should resign from the post of First Secretary of the Moscow Communist Party. [ 18 ] Aside from the fact that no one had ever before quit the Politburo, no one in the party had ever addressed a leader of the party in such a manner in front of the Central Committee since Leon Trotsky in the 1920s, who was later assassinated. [ 18 ] In his reply, Gorbachev accused Yeltsin of "political immaturity" and "absolute irresponsibility". Nobody in the Central Committee backed Yeltsin. [ citation needed ] 
Within days, news of Yeltsin's actions leaked and rumours of his "secret speech" at the Central Committee spread throughout Moscow. Soon fabricated samizdat versions began to circulate a this was the beginning of Yeltsin's rise as a rebel and growth in popularity as an anti-establishment figure. [ 19 ] Gorbachev called a meeting of the Moscow City Party Committee for 11 November 1987 to launch another crushing attack on Yeltsin and confirm his dismissal. On 9 November 1987, Yeltsin apparently tried to kill himself and was rushed to hospital bleeding profusely from self-inflicted cuts to his chest. Gorbachev ordered the injured Yeltsin from his hospital bed to the Moscow party plenum two days later where he was ritually denounced by the party faithful in what was reminiscent of a Stalinist show trial before he was fired from the post of First Secretary of the Moscow Communist Party. Yeltsin said he would never forgive Gorbachev for this "immoral and inhuman" treatment. [ 18 ] 
Yeltsin was demoted to the position of First Deputy Commissioner for the State Committee for Construction. At the next meeting of the Central Committee on 24 February 1988, Yeltsin was removed from his position as a Candidate member of the Politburo. He was perturbed and humiliated but began plotting his revenge. [ 20 ] His opportunity came with Gorbachev's establishment of the Congress of People's Deputies. [ 21 ] He recovered, and started intensively criticizing Gorbachev, highlighting the slow pace of reform in the Soviet Union as his major argument.
Yeltsin's criticism of the Politburo and Gorbachev led to a smear campaign against him, in which examples of Yeltsin's awkward behavior were used against him. Speaking at the CPSU conference in 1988, Yegor Ligachev stated: "Boris, you are wrong". An article in Pravda described Yeltsin as drunk at a lecture during his visit to the United States, an allegation which appeared to be confirmed by a TV account of his speech. However, popular dissatisfaction with the regime was very strong, and these attempts to smear Yeltsin only added to his popularity. In another incident, Yeltsin fell from a bridge. Commenting on this event, Yeltsin hinted that he was helped to fall from the bridge by the enemies of perestroika, but his opponents suggested that he was simply drunk. [ citation needed ] 
On 26 March 1989, Yeltsin was elected to the Congress of People's Deputies of the Soviet Union as the delegate from Moscow district with a hugely decisive 92f the vote [ 6 ] and on 29 May 1989, was elected by the Congress of People's Deputies to a seat on the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union. On 19 July 1989, Yeltsin announced the formation of the radical pro-reform faction in the Congress of People's Deputies: the Inter-Regional Group of Deputies, and on 29 July 1989 was elected one of the five co-Chairman of the Inter-Regional Group. [ 6 ] 
President of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic [ edit ] 
Yeltsin on 21 February 1989 Yeltsin, with his personal bodyguard Alexander Korzhakov, stands on a tank to defy the August coup in 1991 Yeltsin on 22 August 1991 
On 4 March 1990, Yeltsin was elected to the Congress of People's Deputies of Russia representing Sverdlovsk with 72f the vote. [ 22 ] On 29 May 1990, he was elected chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (RSFSR), in spite of the fact that Gorbachev personally pleaded with the Russian deputies not to select Yeltsin. [ 23 ] He was supported by both democratic and conservative members of the Supreme Soviet, which sought power in the developing political situation in the country.
A part of this power struggle was the opposition between power structures of the Soviet Union and the RSFSR. In an attempt to gain more power, on 12 June 1990, the Congress of People's Deputies of the RSFSR adopted a declaration of sovereignty. On 12 July 1990, Yeltsin resigned from the CPSU in a dramatic speech before party members at the 28th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, some of whom responded by shouting "Shame!" [ 24 ] 
On 12 June 1991, Yeltsin won 57f the popular vote in the democratic presidential elections for the Russian republic, defeating Gorbachev's preferred candidate, Nikolai Ryzhkov who got just 16f the vote, and four other candidates. In his election campaign, Yeltsin criticized the "dictatorship of the center", but did not suggest the introduction of a market economy. Instead, he said that he would put his head on the railtrack in the event of increased prices. Yeltsin took office on 10 July, and reappointed Ivan Silayev as Chairman of the Council of Ministers a Government of the Russian SFSR.
On 18 August 1991, a coup against Gorbachev was launched by the government members opposed to perestroika. Gorbachev was held in Crimea while Yeltsin raced to the White House of Russia (residence of the Supreme Soviet of the RSFSR) in Moscow to defy the coup, making a memorable speech from atop the turret of a tank onto which he had climbed. The White House was surrounded by the military but the troops defected in the face of mass popular demonstrations. By 21 August most of the coup leaders had fled Moscow and Gorbachev was "rescued" from Crimea and then returned to Moscow. Yeltsin was subsequently hailed by his supporters around the world for rallying mass opposition to the coup.
Although restored to his position, Gorbachev had been destroyed politically. Neither union nor Russian power structures heeded his commands as support had swung over to Yeltsin. Taking advantage of the situation, Yeltsin began taking what remained of the Soviet government, ministry by ministryaincluding the Kremlin. On 6 November 1991, Yeltsin issued a decree banning all Communist Party activities on Russian soil. In early December 1991, Ukraine voted for independence from the Soviet Union. A week later, on 8 December, Yeltsin met Ukrainian president Leonid Kravchuk and the leader of Belarus, Stanislav Shushkevich, in Belovezhskaya Pushcha. In the Belavezha Accords, the three presidents announced the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the formation of a voluntary Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) in its place. [ citation needed ] 
According to Gorbachev, Yeltsin kept the plans of the Belovezhskaya meeting in strict secrecy and the main goal of the dissolution of the Soviet Union was to get rid of Gorbachev, who by that time had started to recover his position after the events of August. Gorbachev has also accused Yeltsin of violating the people's will expressed in the referendum in which the majority voted to keep the Soviet Union united. On 12 December, the Supreme Soviet of the RSFSR ratified the Belavezha Accords and denounced the 1922 Union Treaty. It also ordered the Russian deputies in the Council of the Union to cease their work, leaving that body without a quorum. In effect, the largest republic of the Soviet Union had seceded.
On 17 December, in a meeting with Yeltsin, Gorbachev accepted the fait accompli and agreed to dissolve the Soviet Union. On 24 December, the Russian Federation, by mutual agreement of the other CIS states (which by this time included all of the remaining republics except Georgia) took the Soviet Union's seat in the United Nations. The next day, Gorbachev resigned and the Soviet Union ceased to existathereby ending the world's oldest, largest and most powerful Communist state. Economic relations between the former Soviet republics were severely compromised. Millions of ethnic Russians found themselves in the newly formed foreign countries. [ citation needed ] 
President of the Russian Federation [ edit ] 
Yeltsin's first term [ edit ] 
Radical reforms [ edit ] 
Most of Yeltsin's time as president was plagued by economic contraction. 
Just days after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Boris Yeltsin resolved to embark on a program of radical economic reform. Unlike Gorbachev's reforms, which sought to expand democracy in the socialist system, the new regime aimed to completely dismantle socialism and fully implement capitalismaconverting the world's largest command economy into a free-market one. During early discussions of this transition, Yeltsin's advisers debated issues of speed and sequencing, with an apparent division between those favoring a rapid approach and those favoring a gradual or slower approach.
In late 1991, Yeltsin turned to the advice of Western economists, and Western institutions such as the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, and the U.S. Treasury Department, who had developed a standard policy recipe for transition economies in the late 1980s. This policy recipe came to be known as the "Washington Consensus" or "shock therapy", a combination of measures intended to liberalize prices and stabilize the state's budget. Such measures had been attempted in Poland, and advocates of "shock therapy" thought that the same could be done in Russia. Some Russian policymakers were skeptical that this was the way to go, but the approach was favored by Yeltsin's deputy, Yegor Gaidar, a 35-year-old Russian economist inclined toward radical reform. [ citation needed ] 
On 2 January 1992, Yeltsin, acting as his own prime minister, ordered the liberalization of foreign trade, prices, and currency. At the same time, Yeltsin followed a policy of 'macroeconomic stabilization, ' a harsh austerity regime designed to control inflation. Under Yeltsin's stabilization program, interest rates were raised to extremely high levels to tighten money and restrict credit. To bring state spending and revenues into balance, Yeltsin raised new taxes heavily, cut back sharply on government subsidies to industry and construction, and made steep cuts to state welfare spending.
In early 1992, prices skyrocketed throughout Russia, and a deep credit crunch shut down many industries and brought about a protracted depression. The reforms devastated the living standards of much of the population, especially the groups dependent on Soviet-era state subsidies and welfare entitlement programs. [ 25 ] Through the 1990s, Russia's GDP fell by 50 percent, vast sectors of the economy were wiped out, inequality and unemployment grew dramatically, while incomes fell. Hyperinflation, caused by the Central Bank of Russia's loose monetary policy, wiped out a lot of personal savings, and tens of millions of Russians were plunged into poverty. [ 26 ] [ 27 ] 
Some economists argue that in the 1990s Russia suffered an economic downturn more severe than the United States or Germany had undergone six decades earlier in the Great Depression. [ 25 ] Russian commentators and even some Western economists, such as Marshall Goldman, widely blamed Yeltsin's Western-backed economic program for the country's disastrous economic performance in the 1990s. Many politicians began to quickly distance themselves from the program. In February 1992, Russia's vice president, Alexander Rutskoy denounced the Yeltsin program as "economic genocide." [ 28 ] By 1993 conflict over the reform direction escalated between Yeltsin on the one side, and the opposition to radical economic reform in Russia's parliament on the other.
Confrontation with parliament [ edit ] 
Main article: 1993 Russian constitutional crisis 
Also throughout 1992, Yeltsin wrestled with the Supreme Soviet of Russia and the Congress of People's Deputies for control over government, government policy, government banking and property. In the course of 1992, the speaker of the Russian Supreme Soviet, Ruslan Khasbulatov, came out in opposition to the reforms, despite claiming to support Yeltsin's overall goals. In December 1992, the 7th Congress of People's Deputies succeeded in turning down the Yeltsin-backed candidacy of Yegor Gaidar for the position of Russian prime minister. An agreement was brokered by Valery Zorkin, chairman of the Constitutional Court, which included the following provisions: a national referendum on the new constitution; parliament and Yeltsin would choose a new head of government, to be confirmed by the Supreme Soviet; and the parliament was to cease making constitutional amendments that change the balance of power between the legislative and executive branches. Eventually, on 14 December, Viktor Chernomyrdin, widely seen as a compromise figure, was confirmed in the office.
The conflict escalated soon, however, with the parliament changing its prior decision to hold a referendum. Yeltsin, in turn, announced in a televised address to the nation on 20 March 1993, that he was going to assume certain "special powers" in order to implement his program of reforms. In response, the hastily called 9th Congress of People's Deputies attempted to remove Yeltsin from presidency through impeachment on 26 March 1993. Yeltsin's opponents gathered more than 600 votes for impeachment, but fell 72 votes short of the required two-thirds majority. [ citation needed ] 
President Yeltsin with US President George H. W. Bush, 1 June 1992 
During the summer of 1993, a situation of dual power developed in Russia. Since July, two separate administrations of the Chelyabinsk Oblast functioned side by side, after Yeltsin refused to accept the newly elected pro-parliament head of the region. The Supreme Soviet pursued its own foreign policies, passing a declaration on the status of Sevastopol. In August, a commentator reflected on the situation as follows: "The President issues decrees as if there were no Supreme Soviet, and the Supreme Soviet suspends decrees as if there were no President." (Izvestiya, 13 August 1993). [ 29 ] 
On 21 September 1993 Yeltsin announced in a televised address his decision to disband the Supreme Soviet and Congress of People's Deputies by decree. In his address Yeltsin declared his intent to rule by decree until the election of the new parliament and a referendum on a new constitution, triggering the constitutional crisis of October 1993. On the night after Yeltsin's televised address, the Supreme Soviet declared Yeltsin removed from presidency, by virtue of his breaching the constitution, and Vice-President Alexander Rutskoy was sworn in as the acting president. [ citation needed ] 
Between 21a24 September Yeltsin was confronted by popular unrest. The demonstrators were protesting the new and terrible living conditions under Yeltsin. Since 1989 GDP had declined by half. Corruption was rampant, violent crime was skyrocketing, medical services were collapsing, food and fuel were increasingly scarce and life expectancy was falling for all but a tiny handful of the population; moreover, Yeltsin was increasingly getting the blame. By early October, Yeltsin had secured the support of Russia's army and ministry of interior forces. In a massive show of force, Yeltsin called up tanks to shell the Russian White House, Russia's parliament building. [ citation needed ] 
As the Supreme Soviet was dissolved, in December 1993 elections to the newly established parliament, the State Duma, were held. Candidates associated with Yeltsin's economic policies were overwhelmed by a huge anti-Yeltsin vote, the bulk of which was divided between the Communist Party and ultra-nationalists. The referendum, however, held at the same time, approved the new constitution, which significantly expanded the powers of the president, giving Yeltsin a right to appoint the members of the government, to dismiss the prime minister and, in some cases, to dissolve the Duma. [ 30 ] 
Chechnya [ edit ] 
Main article: First Chechen War 
In December 1994, Yeltsin ordered the military invasion of Chechnya in an attempt to restore Moscow's control over the republic. Nearly two years later Yeltsin withdrew federal forces from the devastated Chechnya under a 1996 peace agreement brokered by Alexander Lebed, then Yeltsin's security chief. The peace deal allowed Chechnya greater autonomy but not full independence. The decision to launch the war in Chechnya dismayed many in the West. TIME magazine wrote:
"Then, what was to be made of Boris Yeltsin? Clearly he could no longer be regarded as the democratic hero of Western myth. But had he become an old-style communist boss, turning his back on the democratic reformers he once championed and throwing in his lot with militarists and ultranationalists? Or was he a befuddled, out-of-touch chief being manipulated, knowingly or unwittingly, byawell, by whom exactly? If there was to be a dictatorial coup, would Yeltsin be its victim or its leader?" [ 31 ] 
Privatization and the rise of "the oligarchs" [ edit ] 
Main article: Privatization in Russia Yeltsyn meets President Clinton in 1994. 
Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Yeltsin promoted privatization as a way of spreading ownership of shares in former state enterprises as widely as possible to create political support for his economic reforms. In the West, privatization was viewed as the key to the transition from Communism in Eastern Europe, ensuring a quick dismantling of the Soviet-era command economy to make way for 'free market reforms.' In the early 1990s, Anatoly Chubais, Yeltsin's deputy for economic policy, emerged as a leading advocate of privatization in Russia.
In late 1992, Yeltsin launched a program of free vouchers as a way to give mass privatization a jump-start. Under the program, all Russian citizens were issued vouchers, each with a nominal value of around 10, 000 rubles, for purchase of shares of select state enterprises. Although each citizen initially received a voucher of equal face value, within months most of them converged in the hands of intermediaries who were ready to buy them for cash right away. [ citation needed ] 
In 1995, as Yeltsin struggled to finance Russia's growing foreign debt and gain support from the Russian business elite for his bid in the early-1996 presidential elections, the Russian president prepared for a new wave of privatization offering stock shares in some of Russia's most valuable state enterprises in exchange for bank loans. The program was promoted as a way of simultaneously speeding up privatization and ensuring the government a cash infusion to cover its operating needs. [ citation needed ] 
However, the deals were effectively giveaways of valuable state assets to a small group of tycoons in finance, industry, energy, telecommunications, and the media who came to be known as "oligarchs" in the mid-1990s. This was due to the fact that ordinary people sold their vouchers for cash. The vouchers were bought out by a small group of investors. By mid-1996, substantial ownership shares over major firms were acquired at very low prices by a handful of people. Boris Berezovsky, who controlled major stakes in several banks and the national media, emerged as one of Yeltsin's most prominent backers. Along with Berezovsky, Mikhail Khodorkovsky, Vladimir Potanin, Vladimir Bogdanov, Rem Viakhirev, Vagit Alekperov, Alexander Smolensky, Victor Vekselberg, Mikhail Fridman and a few years later Roman Abramovich, were habitually mentioned in the media as Russia's oligarchs. [ citation needed ] 
Korean Air Lines Flight 007 [ edit ] 
Main article: Korean Air Lines Flight 007 
On 5 December 1991, Senator Jesse Helms, ranking member of the Minority on the U.S. Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, wrote to Boris Yeltsin concerning U.S. servicemen who were POWs or MIAs. "The status of thousands and thousands of American servicemen who are held by Soviet and other Communist forces, and who were never repatriated after every major war this century, is of grave concern to the American people." [ 32 ] 
Yeltsin would ultimately respond with a statement made on 15 June 1992, while being interviewed aboard his presidential jet on his way to the United States, "Our archives have shown that it is truea some of them were transferred to the territory of the U.S.S.R. and were kept in labour camps... We can only surmise that some of them may still be alive." [ 32 ] On 10 December 1991, just five days after Senator Helms had written Yeltsin concerning American servicemen, he again wrote to Yeltsin, this time concerning Korean Air Lines Flight 007 (KAL 007) requesting information concerning possible survivors, including Congressman from Georgia Larry McDonald, and their whereabouts.
"One of the greatest tragedies of the Cold War was the shoot-down of the Korean Airlines Flight 007 by the Armed Forces of what was then the Soviet Union on 1 September 1983... The KAL-007 tragedy was one of the most tense incidences of the entire Cold War. However, now that relations between our two nations have improved substantially, I believe that it is time to resolve the mysteries surrounding this event. Clearing the air on this issue could help further to improve relations." (Sen. Jesse Helms, writing to Yeltsin, 10 December 1991.
In March 1992, Yeltsin would hand over KAL 007's Black Box without its tapes to Korean President Roh Tae-Woo at the end of the plenary session of the Korean National Assembly with this statement, "We apologise for the tragedy and are trying to settle some unsolved issues." Yeltsin released the tapes of the KAL 007's "Black Box" (its Digital Flight Data Recorder and Cockpit Voice Recorder) to the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) on 8 January 1993. [ 33 ] For years the Soviet authorities had denied possessing these tapes. The openness of Yeltsin about POW/MIA and KAL 007 matters may also have signalled his willingness for more openness to the West. In 1992, which he labelled the "window of opportunity", he was willing to discuss biological weapons with the U.S. and admitted that the Sverdlovsk anthrax leak of 2 April 1979 had been caused as a result of a mishap at a military facility. [ 34 ] [ 35 ] The Russian government had maintained that the cause was contaminated meat. The true number of victims in the anthrax outbreak at Sverdlovsk, about 850 miles (1, 368km) east of Moscow, is unknown.
1996 presidential election [ edit ] 
Boris Yeltsyn on election rally in Belgorod, 1996 
In February 1996, Yeltsin announced that he would seek a second term in the spring 1996 Russian presidential election. The announcement followed weeks of speculation that Yeltsin was at the end of his political career because of his health problems and growing unpopularity in Russia. At the time Yeltsin was recuperating from a series of heart attacks. Domestic and international observers also noted his occasionally erratic behaviour. When campaigning opened in early 1996, Yeltsin's popularity was close to zero. [ 36 ] Meanwhile, the opposition Communist Party of the Russian Federation had already gained ground in parliamentary voting on 17 December 1995, and its candidate, Gennady Zyuganov, had a strong grass roots organization, especially in the rural areas and small towns, and appealed effectively to memories of the old days of Soviet prestige on the international stage and the socialist domestic order. [ 37 ] 
Panic struck the Yeltsin team when opinion polls suggested that the ailing president could not win; some members of his entourage urged him to cancel presidential elections and effectively rule as dictator from then on. [ citation needed ] Instead, Yeltsin changed his campaign team, assigning a key role to his daughter, Tatyana Dyachenko, and appointing Chubais as campaign manager. Chubais, acting as both Yeltsin's campaign manager and adviser on Russia's privatisation programme, used his control of the privatisation programme as an instrument of Yeltsin's reelection campaign.
In mid-1996, Chubais and Yeltsin recruited a team of a handful of financial and media oligarchs to bankroll the Yeltsin campaign and guaranteed favorable media coverage the president on national television and in leading newspapers. [ 38 ] In return, Chubais allowed well-connected Russian business leaders to acquire majority stakes in some of Russia's most valuable state-owned assets. [ 39 ] The media painted a picture of a fateful choice for Russia, between Yeltsin and a "return to totalitarianism." The oligarchs even played up the threat of civil war if a Communist were elected president. [ citation needed ] 
Yeltsyn with Patriarch Alexy II and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. Yeltsin and Bill Clinton share a laugh in October 1995. 
Yeltsin campaigned energetically, dispelling concerns about his health, and maintained a high media profile. To boost his popularity, Yeltsin promised to abandon some of his more unpopular economic reforms, boost welfare spending, end the war in Chechnya, and pay wage and pension arrears. Yeltsin's campaign also got a boost from the announcement of a $10billion loan to the Russian government from the International Monetary Fund. [ 40 ] 
Zyuganov, who lacked Yeltsin's resources and financial backing, saw his strong initial lead whittled away. After the first round on 16 June Yeltsin appointed a highly popular candidate Alexander Lebed, who came in third in the first round, Secretary of the Security Council of Russia, sacked at the latter's behest defence minister Pavel Grachev and on 20 June sacked a number of his siloviki , one of them being his chief of presidential security Alexander Korzhakov, viewed by many as Yeltsin's Aminence grise. In the run-off on 3 July, with a turnout of 68.9Yeltsin won 53.8f the vote and Zyuganov 40.3with the rest (5.9voting "against all". [ 41 ] 
Yeltsin's second term [ edit ] 
Yeltsin underwent an emergency quintuple heart bypass surgery and remained in the hospital for months. During his presidency, Russia received US$40billion in funds from the International Monetary Fund and other international lending organizations. However, his opponents allege that most of these funds were stolen by people from Yeltsin's circle and placed in foreign banks. [ 42 ] [ 43 ] [ 44 ] 
In 1998, a political and economic crisis emerged when Yeltsin's government defaulted on its debts, causing financial markets to panic and the ruble to collapse in the 1998 Russian financial crisis. During the 1999 Kosovo war, Yeltsin strongly opposed the NATO military campaign against Yugoslavia, and warned of possible Russian intervention if NATO deployed ground troops to Kosovo. In televised comments he stated: "I told NATO, the Americans, the Germans: Don't push us toward military action. Otherwise there will be a European war for sure and possibly world war." [ 45 ] [ 46 ] 
Yeltsin on the day of his resignation, together with Putin and Alexander Voloshin 
On 15 May 1999, Yeltsin survived another attempt of impeachment, this time by the democratic and communist opposition in the State Duma. He was charged with several unconstitutional activities, including the signing of the Belavezha Accords dissolving the Soviet Union in December 1991, the coup-d'Atat in October 1993, and initiating the war in Chechnya in 1994. None of these charges received the two-thirds majority of the Duma which was required to initiate the process of impeachment of the president.
On 9 August 1999 Yeltsin fired his prime minister, Sergei Stepashin, and for the fourth time, fired his entire cabinet. In Stepashin's place he appointed Vladimir Putin, relatively unknown at that time, and announced his wish to see Putin as his successor. In late 1999 Yeltsin and President Clinton openly disagreed on the war in Chechnya. At the November meeting of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, Clinton pointed his finger at Yeltsin and demanded he halt bombing attacks that had resulted in many civilian casualties. Yeltsin immediately left the conference. [ 47 ] 
In December while visiting China to seek support on Chechnya, Yeltsin replied to Clinton's criticism of a Russian ultimatum to citizens of Grozny. He bluntly pronounced: "Yesterday, Clinton permitted himself to put pressure on Russia. It seems he has for a minute, for a second, for half a minute, forgotten that Russia has a full arsenal of nuclear weapons. He has forgotten about that." Clinton dismissed Yeltsin's comments stating: "I didn't think he'd forgotten that America was a great power when he disagreed with what I did in Kosovo." It fell to Vladimir Putin to downplay Yeltsin's comments and present reassurances about U.S. and Russian relations. [ 48 ] 
Resignation [ edit ] 
Yeltsin appearing on TV announcing his resignation on 31 December 1999. 
On 31 December 1999, in a surprise announcement aired at 12:00 pm MSK on Russian television and taped in the morning of the same day, Yeltsin said he had resigned and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin had taken over as acting president, with elections due to take place on 26 March 2000. Yeltsin asked for forgiveness for what he acknowledged were errors of his rule, and said Russia needed to enter the new century with new political leaders. Yeltsin said:
"I want to ask for your forgiveness, that many of our dreams didn't come true. That what seemed to us to be simple turned out painfully difficult. I ask forgiveness for the fact that I didn't justify some of the hopes of those people who believed that with one stroke, one burst, one sign we could jump from the grey, stagnant, totalitarian past to a bright, rich, civilized future. I myself believed this. One burst was not enough... but I want you to know - I've never said this, today it's important for me to tell you: the pain of every one of you, I feel in myself, in my heart... in saying farewell, I want to say to every one of you: be happy. You deserve happiness. You deserve happiness, and peace." [ 49 ] 
By some estimates, his approval ratings when leaving office were as low as 2sup id="cite_ref-50" class="reference"> [ 50 ] 
Illness [ edit ] 
Boris Yeltsyn with tennis player Dmitrii Tursunov in 2006 
Yeltsin suffered from heart disease during his first term as President of the Russian Federation, probably continuing for the rest of his life. Although the onset may have been earlier, his daughter has since said that he had a heart attack in September 1994 (see below). It is common knowledge that in early 1996 he was recuperating from a series of heart attacks and, soon after, he spent months in hospital recovering from a quintuple bypass operation (see above). Eventually, the cause of his death in 2007 would be recorded as congestive heart failure. According to numerous reports, Yeltsin struggled with alcoholism. The subject made headlines abroad during Yeltsin's visit to the U.S. in 1989 for a series of lectures on social and political life in the Soviet Union.
That trip was described by a report in the Italian newspaper La Repubblica . The article, reprinted by Pravda , reported that Yeltsin often appeared drunk in public. His alleged alcoholism was also the subject of media discussion following his meeting with U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott following Clinton's inauguration in 1993 and after his flight stop-over at Shannon Airport, Ireland in September 1994 when the waiting Irish Taoiseach (prime minister) Albert Reynolds was told that Yeltsin was unwell and would not be leaving the aircraft. Reynolds tried to make excuses for him in an effort to offset his own humiliation in vainly waiting outside the plane to meet him. Speaking to the media in March 2010, Yeltsin's daughter Tatyana Yumasheva, claimed that her father had suffered a heart attack on the flight from the United States to Moscow and was therefore not in a position to leave the plane. [ 51 ] 
According to former Deputy Prime Minister of Russia Boris Nemtsov, the bizarre behavior of Yeltsin resulted from "strong drugs" given to him by Kremlin doctors, which were incompatible even with a small amount of alcohol. This was discussed by journalist Yelena Tregubova from the "Kremlin's pool" in connection with an episode during Yeltsin's visit to Stockholm in 1997 when Yeltsin suddenly started talking nonsense (he allegedly told his bemused audience that Swedish meatballs reminded him of BjArn Borg's face), [ 52 ] [ 53 ] lost his balance, and almost fell down on the podium after drinking a single glass of champagne. [ 54 ] Journalist Yelena Tregubova barely escaped an assassination attempt after publishing this material.
Yeltsin, in his memoirs, claimed no recollection of the event but did make a passing reference to the incident when he met Borg a year later at The World Circle Kabaddi Cup in Hamilton, Ontario, where the pair had been invited to present the trophy. [ 55 ] He made a hasty withdrawal from the funeral of King Hussein of Jordan in February 1999. [ 56 ] 
After Yeltsin's death, a Dutch neurosurgeon said that his team had been secretly flown to Moscow to operate on Yeltsin in 1999. Yeltsin suffered from an unspecified neurological disorder that affected his sense of balance, causing him to wobble as if in a drunken state; the goal of the operation was to reduce the pain. [ 57 ] 
According to author and historian Taylor Branch's interviews with Bill Clinton, on a 1995 visit to Washington D.C., Yeltsin was found on Pennsylvania Avenue, drunk, in his underwear and trying to hail a cab in order to find pizza. [ 58 ] 
Yeltsin's personal and health problems received a great deal of attention in the global press. As the years went on, he was often viewed as an increasingly unstable leader, rather than the inspiring figure as whom he was once seen. The possibility that he might die in office was often discussed. Starting in the last years of his presidential term, Yeltsin's primary residence was the Gorki-9 presidential dacha west of Moscow. He made frequent stays at the nearby government sanatorium in Barvikha. [ citation needed ] 
Life after resignation [ edit ] 
Yeltsin with Naina Yeltsina on his 75th birthday on 1 February 2006. 
Yeltsin maintained a low profile after his resignation, making almost no public statements or appearances. However, on 13 September 2004, following the Beslan school hostage crisis and nearly concurrent terrorist attacks in Moscow, Putin launched an initiative to replace the election of regional governors with a system whereby they would be directly appointed by the president and approved by regional legislatures. Yeltsin, together with Mikhail Gorbachev, publicly criticized Putin's plan as a step away from democracy in Russia and a return to the centrally run political apparatus of the Soviet era. [ 59 ] 
In September 2005, Yeltsin underwent a hip operation in Moscow after breaking his femur in a fall while vacationing on the Italian island of Sardinia. [ 60 ] On 1 February 2006, Yeltsin celebrated his 75th birthday. He used this occasion as an opportunity to criticize a "monopolistic" U.S. foreign policy, and to state that Vladimir Putin was the right choice for Russia. [ 61 ] 
Death and funeral [ edit ] 
Funeral of Yeltsin on 25 April 2007 
Boris Yeltsin died of congestive heart failure [ 62 ] [ 63 ] on 23 April 2007, aged 76. [ 64 ] [ 65 ] According to experts quoted by Komsomolskaya Pravda , the onset of Yeltsin's condition was due to his visit to Jordan between 25 March and 2 April. [ 62 ] He was buried in the Novodevichy Cemetery on 25 April 2007, [ 66 ] following a period during which his body had lain in state in the Cathedral of Christ the Saviour in Moscow. [ 67 ] 
Yeltsin was the first Russian head of state in 113 years to be buried in a church ceremony, after Emperor Alexander III. [ 68 ] He was survived by his wife, Naina Iosifovna Yeltsina, whom he married in 1956, and their two daughters Yelena and Tatyana, born in 1957 and 1959, respectively. [ citation needed ] 
President Putin declared the day of his funeral a national day of mourning, with the nation's flags flown at half mast and all entertainment programs suspended for the day. [ 69 ] Putin said, upon declaring 25 April 2007 a day of national mourning, that:
"[Yeltsin's] presidency has inscribed him forever in Russian and in world history. ... A new democratic Russia was born during his time: a free, open and peaceful country. A state in which the power truly does belong to the people. ... the first President of Russiaas strength consisted in the mass support of Russian citizens for his ideas and aspirations. Thanks to the will and direct initiative of President Boris Yeltsin a new constitution, one which declared human rights a supreme value, was adopted. It gave people the opportunity to freely express their thoughts, to freely choose power in Russia, to realise their creative and entrepreneurial plans. This Constitution permitted us to begin building a truly effective Federation. ... We knew him as a brave and a warm-hearted, spiritual person. He was an upstanding and courageous national leader. And he was always very honest and frank while defending his position. ... [Yeltsin] assumed full responsibility for everything he called for, for everything he aspired to. For everything he tried to do and did do for the sake of Russia, for the sake of millions of Russians. And he invariably took upon himself, let it in his heart, all the trials and tribulations of Russia, peoplesa difficulties and problems." [ 70 ] 
Shortly after the news broke, former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev issued a statement, saying:
"I offer my deepest condolences to the family of a man on whose shoulders rested many great deeds for the good of the country and serious mistakesaa tragic fate". [ 71 ] 
Memorials [ edit ] 
Statue of Yeltsin in Yekaterinburg Monument to Yeltsin in Novodevichy cemetery 
In April 2008, a new memorial to Yeltsin was dedicated in Moscow's Novodevichy cemetery, to mixed reactions. At the memorial service, a military chorus performed Russia's national anthema an anthem that was changed shortly after the end of Yeltsin's term, to follow the music of the old Soviet anthem, with lyrics reflecting Russia's new status. [ 72 ] [ 73 ] 
Honours and awards [ edit ] 
, This section does not cite any references or sources . Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2014) , This article incorporates information from the equivalent article on the Russian Wikipedia . Russian and Soviet Order of Merit for the Fatherland, 1st class (12 June 2001) a a particularly outstanding contribution to the establishment and development of the Russian state [ 74 ] [ 75 ] , Order of Lenin (January 1981) a for services to the Communist Party and Soviet state and his fiftieth birthday [ 75 ] [ 76 ] , Order of the Red Banner of Labour, twice; [ 75 ] [ 76 ] August 1971 a for services in carrying out a five-year plan, January 1974 a for achievements in the construction of the first stage of cold rolling shop at the Verkh-Isetsky Metallurgical Plant in Sverdlovsk, . , Order of the Badge of Honour (1966) a for achievements in implementing the seven-year plan targets for construction [ 75 ] [ 76 ] , Medal "In Commemoration of the 1000th Anniversary of Kazan" (2006), Medal "For Valiant Labour. To commemorate the 100th anniversary of Lenin" (November 1969), Jubilee Medal "Thirty Years of Victory in the Great Patriotic War 1941-1945" (April 1975), Jubilee Medal "60 Years of the Armed Forces of the USSR" (January 1978), Gold Medal, Exhibition of Economic Achievements (October 1981) [ clarification needed ] , Medal - "In memory of the army as a volunteer" (March 2012, posthumous) - for a high contribution to the remembrance of the Great Patriotic War, with respect for the history of the Russian state, and for his contribution to the preservation of names of victims in conflicts in defence of the homeland. [ citation needed ] , . Foreign awards Order of Francisc Skorina (Belarus, 31 December 1999) a for his great personal contribution to the development and strengthening of Belarusian-Russian cooperation [ 75 ] , Order of the Golden Eagle (Kazakhstan, 1997), Order of Prince Yaroslav the Wise, 1st class (Ukraine, 22 January 2000) a for his significant personal contribution to the development of Ukrainian-Russian cooperation, Knight Grand Cross with collar of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic (Italy, 1991), Order of the Three Stars, 1st class (Latvia, 2006), Order "Bethlehem 2000" (Palestinian Authority, 2000), Knight Grand Cross of the Legion of Honour (France) [ when? ] , Order of Good Hope, 1st class (South Africa, 1999), Medal of 13 January (Lithuania, 9 January 1992), Grand Cross of the Order of the Cross of Vytis (Lithuania, 10 June 2011, posthumous), Order "For Personal Courage" (Mongolia, 18 October 2001), . Departmental awards Gorchakov Commemorative Medal (Russian Foreign Ministry, 1998) [ 75 ] , Golden Olympic Order (International Olympic Committee, 1993), . Religious awards Order of Saint Blessed Grand Prince Dmitry Donskoy, 1st class (Russian Orthodox Church, 2006), Chevalier of the Order of the Chain of the Holy Sepulchre (Greek Orthodox Church of Jerusalem, 2000), . Titles Honorary Citizen of Sverdlovsk Oblast (2010, posthumous), Kazan (2005), Samara Oblast (2006), Yerevan, Armenia (2002), Turkmenistan [ when? ] , . , . 
Bibliography [ edit ] 
Yeltsin, Boris. Against the Grain . London: Jonathan Cape, 1990, Yeltsin, Boris. The Struggle for Russia . New York: Times Books, 1994, Shevtsova, Lilia. Yeltsin's Russia: Myths and Reality Washinton: Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 1999, . 
See also [ edit ] 
, Biography portal, Russia portal, Soviet Union portal, Communism portal, Cold War portal, Communist Party of the Soviet Union, Dissolution of the Soviet Union, History of the Soviet Union, Mikhail Gorbachev, Alexander Rutskoy, Vladimir Putin, President of Russia, Yeltsinism, Someone Still Loves You Boris Yeltsin, Spinning Boris, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ "DDDDDDDD D.DDDDDDD DDDDDDDD DD DDDD DDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDDD". Pravoslvie.ru. , ^ Aslund, Anders (SeptemberaOctober 1999). "Russia's Collapse". Foreign Affairs . Council on Foreign Relations . Retrieved 17 July 2007 . , ^ Bohlen, Celestine (February 1992). "Yeltsin Deputy calls reforms Economic Genocide". The New York Times . Retrieved 23 September 2011 . , ^ Yeltsin: Flawed founder of Russian democracy, BBC News , 31 December 1999 , ^ Paul J. Saunders, "U.S. Must Ease Away From Yeltsin", Newsday , 14 May 1999. , ^ a b c d e f Leon Aron, Boris Yeltsin A Revolutionary Life . Harper Collins, 2000. pg. 739; ISBN 0-00-653041-9. , ^ Leon Aron, Boris Yeltsin A Revolutionary Life . Harper Collins, 2000. p. 5. , ^ "Timeline of a Leader". Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. October 1998. Archived from the original on 16 October 2007 . Retrieved 17 April 2007 . , ^ Leon Aron, Boris Yeltsin A Revolutionary Life . Harper Collins, 2000. p. 6. , ^ "10 things we didn't know last week". BBC. 27 April 2007 . Retrieved 29 April 2007 . , ^ Leon Aron, Boris Yeltsin A Revolutionary Life . Harper Collins, 2000. p. 16. , ^ Leon Aron, Boris Yeltsin A Revolutionary Life . Harper Collins, 2000. p. 30. , ^ Leon Aron, Boris Yeltsin A Revolutionary Life . Harper Collins, 2000. p. 740. , ^ "Chronology". Searchfoundation . Retrieved 3 November 2010 . , ^ "Yeltsin Boris Nikolayevich". Panorama . Retrieved 3 November 2010 . , ^ "DDNDDD DDNDDDDDN DDNDDNND (Mikhail SergeyeviA GorbaAAv)". Archontology.org. 27 March 2009 . Retrieved 3 April 2009 . , ^ Leon Aron, Boris Yeltsin A Revolutionary Life . Harper Collins, 2000. page 132. , ^ a b c d Conor O'Clery, Moscow December 25, 1991: The Last Day of the Soviet Union . pgs 71, 74, 81. Transworld Ireland (2011); ISBN 978-1-84827-112-8. , ^ Keller, Bill (1 November 1987). "CRITIC OF GORBACHEV OFFERS TO RESIGN HIS MOSCOW PARTY POST". The New York Times . , ^ The Strange Death of the Soviet Empire , p. 86; ISBN 0-8050-4154-0 , ^ The Strange Death of the Soviet Empire , p. 90; ISBN 0-8050-4154-0 , ^ Leon Aron, Boris Yeltsin A Revolutionary Life . Harper Collins, 2000. page 739-740. , ^ Dobbs, Michael (30 May 1990). "Yeltsin Wins Presidency of Russia". The Washington Post (Moscow) . Retrieved 31 March 2013 . , ^ "1990: Yeltsin resignation splits Soviet Communists". BBC . 12 July 1990. , ^ a b Peter Nolan, China's Rise, Russia's Fall . Macmillan Press, 1995. pp. 17a18. , ^ Daniel Treisman, "Why Yeltsin Won: A Russian Tammany Hall", Foreign Affairs , September/October 1996. [1] , ^ Theodore P. Gerber and Michael Hout, "More Shock than Therapy: Market Transition, Employment, and Income in Russia, 1991a1995", AJS Volume 104 Number 1 (July 1998): 1a50. , ^ Celestine Bohlen, "Yeltsin Deputy Calls Reforms 'Economic Genocide'", The New York Times , 9 February 1992. , ^ Executive decree authority, by John M. Carey and Matthew Soberg, p. 76 , ^ "Russian Constitution SECTION ONE Chapter 4". Departments.bucknell.edu . Retrieved 3 November 2010 . , ^ "Death Trap". Time . 16 January 1995 . Retrieved 26 April 2010 . , ^ a b Moscow Bound: Policy, Politics, and the POW/MIA Dilemma, John M. G. Brown, Veteran Press, Eureka Springs, California, US (1993), Chapter 14. , ^ ICAO State Letter LE 4/19.4 - 93/68 (Summary of Findings and Conclusions) , ^ Michael Evans. "Anthrax at Sverdlovsk, 1979". Gwu.edu . Retrieved 3 November 2010 . , ^ J.T. Knoph and K.S. Westerdahl, "Re-evaluating Russia's biological weapons policy, as reflected in the Criminal Code and Official Admissions: insubordination leading to a president's subordination." Crit Rev Microbiol. 2006; 32(1): 1a13. , ^ CNN, Russian presidential candidate profiles, 1906 [ dead link ] , ^ "Gennady Zyuganov candidate profile, 1996". CNN. 7 February 1996 . Retrieved 3 November 2010 . , ^ Daniel Treisman, "Blaming Russia First", Foreign Affairs , November/December 2000. [2] , ^ See, e.g., Pekka Sutela, "Insider Privatization in Russia: Speculations on Systemic Changes", Europe-Asia Studies 46:3 (1994), pp. 420a21. , ^ CNN Interactive: Pivotal Elections: Russian Elections; Candidates: Boris Yeltsin (1996) , ^ "Lee Hockstader, Washington Post Foreign Service". The Washington Post . 5 July 1996 . Retrieved 3 November 2010 . , ^ Stanislav Lunev (27 July 1999). "Where Is the IMF Money to Russia Really Going?". NewsMax.com . Retrieved 17 April 2007 . , ^ the-spark.net (19 July 2003). "Yeltsin, "The Family" and the Bureaucratic Mafia" . Retrieved 17 April 2007 . , ^ "Checkmate nears for Yeltsin". Asia Times . 10 September 1999 . Retrieved 17 April 2007 . , ^ "Yeltsin Warns Of European War Over Kosovo". Reuters. 9 April 1999. , ^ "Yeltsin warns of possible world war over Kosovo". CNN. 9 April 1999 . Retrieved 23 April 2007 . , ^ Charles Babington (19 November 1999). "Clinton Spars With Yeltsin On Chechnya, President Denounces Killing of Civilians". The Washington Post . p.A01. , ^ Michael Laris (10 December 1999). "In China, Yeltsin Lashes Out at Clinton Criticisms of Chechen War Are Met With Blunt Reminder of Russian Nuclear Power". The Washington Post . p.A35. , ^ "Yeltsin's Resignation Speech". www.bbc.co.uk . The BBC. , ^ "Transcripts of 'Insight' on CNN". CNN. 7 October 2002 . Retrieved 17 July 2007 . , ^ Mark Franchetti (7 March 2010). "The sober truth behind Boris Yeltsin's drinking problem". The Times (London, UK) . Retrieved 7 March 2010 . , ^ Tom Whipple (25 September 2009). "Understanding the news this week 26 September 2009". The Times (London, UK) . Retrieved 26 April 2010 . , ^ "Office party: The top ten worse for wear politicians". Daily Mirror . UK . Retrieved 3 November 2010 . , ^ Yelena Tregubova Tales of a Kremlin Digger (Russian: DDDDD DNDDNDDDD. DDDDD DNDDDDDNDDDD DDDDDND., MDNDDD., Ad Marginem , 2003; ISBN 5-93321-073-0 Full text in Russian. German translation. , ^ Boris Yeltsin, Midnight Diaries , New York, p. 344 , ^ (Russian: DDDDD DNDDNDDDD. DDDDD DNDDDDDNDDDD DDDDDND., MDNDDD., Ad Marginem , 2003; ISBN 5-93321-073-0 Full text in Russian. German translation. , ^ "University professor reveals neurological disorder". Rijks Universiteit Groningen. 3 May 2007 . Retrieved 31 December 2007 . , ^ Susan Page, "Secret interviews add insight to Clinton presidency", USA Today , 21 September 2009. , ^ "Mikhail Gorbachev and Boris Yeltsin Speak out Against Putin's Reforms". MosNews.com. 16 September 2004 . Retrieved 17 April 2007 . , ^ Yulia Osipova (19 September 2005). "Boris Yeltsin Leaves Ward". Kommersant . Retrieved 17 April 2007 . , ^ "Putin Was Right Choice for RussiaaBoris Yeltsin". MosNews.com. 30 January 2006 . Retrieved 17 April 2007 . , ^ a b "D DDNDDDD DNDDDDDDND DD DNDDNDDDD NDNDND". Komsomolskaya Pravda. 24 April 2007 . Retrieved 24 April 2007 . (Russian) , ^ "DDNNDD NDDN DN DNNDDDDDD NDNDND". Lenta. 23 April 2007 . Retrieved 24 April 2007 . (Russian) , ^ "Russian ex-president Yeltsin dies". BBC. 23 April 2007. , ^ "Former Russian President Yeltsin dies". Sky News. 23 April 2007. , ^ "Former Russian President Boris Yeltsin, who helped bring demise of Soviet Union, dead at 76". Fox News Channel. 23 April 2007. , ^ BBC News Yeltsin to lie in state in Moscow; retrieved 24 April 2007. , ^ Tony Halpin. "Yeltsin, the man who buried communism" The Times . 24 April 2007 [ dead link ] , ^ "President's decree of mourning day". 23 April 2007. Archived from the original on 28 May 2007 . Retrieved 24 April 2007 . (Russian) , ^ Vladimir Putin`s Address on the Occasion of Boris Yelstinas Passing Kremlin, 23 April 2007. Retrieved: 24 April 2007 , ^ In quotes: Reactions to Yeltsin death , 23 April 2007. , ^ Clifford J. Levy (5 May 2008). "Reactions to a New Yeltsin Memorial, as to His Legacy, Are Mixed". The New York Times . Retrieved 26 April 2010 . , ^ "Russia Remembers Yeltsin". Voice of America. 23 April 2008 . Retrieved 3 November 2010 . , ^ "Europe: Russia: An Honor And A Barb For Yeltsin". The New York Times . 13 June 2001 . Retrieved 4 July 2013 . first1= missing last1= in Authors list (help) , ^ a b c d e f "DDNNDD, DDNDN". Lenta.ru. , ^ a b c "DDDDD DNDDDD N DDNNDDD". Argumenty i Fakty . 23 December 1998. , External links [ edit ] 
, Wikiquote has quotations related to: Boris Yeltsin , Wikimedia Commons has media related to Boris Yeltsin ., CNN Cold Wara Profile: Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin, Yeltsin and Post-Soviet Problems from the Dean Peter Krogh Foreign Affairs Digital Archives, Death of a Bear, The Good Czar The Strange Nobility of Boris Yeltsin, "The Yeltsin Years" Documentary on YouTube, Works by or about Boris Yeltsin in libraries (WorldCat catalog), Boris Yeltsin's finger amputation, Photos of Yeltsin's grave at Findagrave.com, YeltsinAs Russia book by Lilia Shevtsova (1999), . 
Party political offices Precededby
Viktor Grishin , First Secretary of the Moscow Communist Party 
23 December 1985 a 12 November 1987, Succeededby
Lev Zaykov , Political offices Precededby
Vitaly Vorotnikov , Chairman of Supreme Soviet of Russian SFSR 
29 May 1990 a 10 July 1991, Succeededby
Ruslan Khasbulatov , Precededby
New office , President of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic 
10 July 1991 a 25 December 1991, Succeededby
Office succeeded by that of President of Russia , Precededby
Oleg Lobov
Acting , Premier of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic
as President of the Russian SFSR 
6 November 1991 a 25 December 1991, Succeededby
Office succeeded by that of Prime Minister of Russia , Precededby
Office replaced President of the Russian SFSR , President of Russia 
25 December 1991 a 31 December 1999, Succeededby
Vladimir Putin , Precededby
Office replaced Premier of the Russian SFSR , Prime Minister of Russia
as President of Russia 
25 December 1991 a 15 June 1992, Succeededby
Yegor Gaidar
Acting , Precededby
Konstantin Kobetz
Acting , Defence Minister of Russia
Acting 
16 March a 18 May 1992, Succeededby
Pavel Grachev , v , t , e , . Revolutions of 1989 , Internal background Era of Stagnation, Communism, Anti-communism, Criticism of communism, Eastern Bloc, Eastern Bloc economies, Eastern Bloc politics, Eastern Bloc information dissemination, Eastern Bloc emigration and defection, KGB, Nomenklatura, Shortage economy, Totalitarianism, Eastern European Anti-Communist Insurgencies, . , International background Active measures, Cold War, List of socialist states, Predictions of Soviet collapse, Reagan Doctrine, Soviet imperialism, Terrorism and the Soviet Union, Vatican Opposition, Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia, . , Reforms Socialism with Chinese characteristics, Perestroika, Glasnost, Democratisation in the Soviet Union, Sinatra Doctrine, Doi Moi, . , Government leaders Ramiz Alia, Nicolae CeauAescu, Mikhail Gorbachev, KAroly GrAsz, Erich Honecker, JAnos KAdAr, MiloA JakeA, Egon Krenz, Wojciech Jaruzelski, Slobodan MiloAeviA, Mathieu KArAkou, Mengistu Haile Mariam, Ne Win, Denis Sassou Nguesso, Heng Samrin, Deng Xiaoping, Todor Zhivkov, Siad Barre, . , Opposition methods Civil resistance, Demonstrations, Human chains, Magnitizdat, Polish underground press, Protests, Samizdat, Strike action, . , Opposition leaders Lech WaAAsa, VAclav Havel, Alexander DubAek, Ion Iliescu, Wu'erkaixi, Chai Ling, Wang Dan, Feng Congde, Tank Man, Joachim Gauck, Sali Berisha, SanjaasArengiin Zorig, Vladimir Bukovsky, Boris Yeltsin , Viacheslav Chornovil, Vytautas Landsbergis, Zianon Pazniak, Zhelyu Zhelev, Aung San Suu Kyi, Meles Zenawi, Isaias Afewerki, . , Opposition movements Charter 77, New Forum, Civic Forum, Democratic Party of Albania, Democratic Russia, Initiative for Peace and Human Rights, SAjAdis, Peaceful Revolution, People's Movement of Ukraine, Solidarity, Popular Front of Latvia, Popular Front of Estonia, Public Against Violence, Belarusian Popular Front, National League for Democracy, National Salvation Front, Union of Democratic Forces, . , Events by location 
Central and Eastern Europe Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Soviet Union, Yugoslavia, . , Soviet Union Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Chechnya, Estonia, Georgia, Latvia, Lithuania, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikstan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, . , Elsewhere Afghanistan, Angola, Benin, Burma, Cambodia, China, Congo-Brazzaville, Ethiopia, Mongolia, Mozambique, Somalia, South Yemen, . , Individual events 1988 Polish strikes, April 9 tragedy, Black January, Baltic Way, Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, Removal of Hungary's border fence, Polish Round Table Agreement, Hungarian Round Table Talks, Pan-European Picnic, Monday Demonstrations, Alexanderplatz demonstration, Malta Summit, German reunification, January Events in Lithuania, January Events in Latvia, March 1991 protests in Belgrade, August Coup, Dissolution of the Soviet Union, . , Later events Colour revolution, Decommunization, Lustration, Democratization, Economic liberalization, Post-Soviet conflicts, Neo-Sovietism, Neo-Stalinism, Post-communism, Yugoslav Wars, . , v , t , e , . Cold War , USA , USSR , ANZUS, NATO, Non-Aligned Movement, SEATO, Warsaw Pact, . , 1940s Dekemvriana, Yalta Conference, Operation Unthinkable , Potsdam Conference, Gouzenko Affair, Operation Masterdom , Operation Beleaguer , Operation Blacklist Forty , Iran crisis of 1946, Greek Civil War, Corfu Channel incident, Turkish Straits crisis, Restatement of Policy on Germany, First Indochina War, Truman Doctrine, Asian Relations Conference, Marshall Plan, 1948 Czechoslovak coup d'Atat, TitoaStalin split, Berlin Blockade, Western betrayal, Iron Curtain, Eastern Bloc, Western Bloc, Chinese Civil War (Second round), Malayan Emergency, . , 1950s Bamboo Curtain, Korean War, 1953 Iranian coup d'Atat, Uprising of 1953 in East Germany, 1954 Guatemalan coup d'Atat, Partition of Vietnam, First Taiwan Strait Crisis, Geneva Summit (1955), PoznaA 1956 protests, Hungarian Revolution of 1956, Suez Crisis, Sputnik crisis, Second Taiwan Strait Crisis, Cuban Revolution, Kitchen Debate, Bandung Conference, Bricker Amendment, McCarthyism, Operation Gladio, Iraqi July Revolution, "We will bury you", . , 1960s Congo Crisis, Sino-Soviet split, 1960 U-2 incident, Bay of Pigs Invasion, 1960 Turkish coup d'Atat, SovietaAlbanian split, Berlin Wall, Portuguese Colonial War (Angolan War of Independence , Guinea-Bissau War of Independence , Mozambican War of Independence) , Cuban missile crisis, Sino-Indian War, Sarawak Communist Insurgency, Iraqi Ramadan Revolution, 1963 Syrian coup d'Atat, Vietnam War, 1964 Brazilian coup d'Atat, United States occupation of the Dominican Republic (1965a66), South African Border War, Transition to the New Order, Domino theory, ASEAN Declaration, Laotian Civil War, 1966 Syrian coup d'Atat, Argentine Revolution, Korean DMZ Conflict, Greek military junta of 1967a74, USS Pueblo incident, Six-Day War, War of Attrition, Cultural Revolution, Prague Spring, Malaysia Communist Insurgency War, Invasion of Czechoslovakia, Iraqi Ba'athist Revolution, Goulash Communism, Sino-Soviet border conflict, Communist insurgency in the Philippines, Corrective Move, . , 1970s DAtente, Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, Black September in Jordan, 1970 Syrian Corrective Revolution, Cambodian Civil War, Realpolitik, Ping-pong diplomacy, 1971 Turkish coup d'Atat, Corrective Revolution (Egypt), Four Power Agreement on Berlin, 1972 Nixon visit to China, 1973 Chilean coup d'Atat, Yom Kippur War, Carnation Revolution, Strategic Arms Limitation Talks, Rhodesian Bush War, Angolan Civil War, Mozambican Civil War, Ogaden War, Ethiopian Civil War, Lebanese Civil War, Sino-Albanian split, CambodianaVietnamese War, Sino-Vietnamese War, Iranian Revolution, Operation Condor , Dirty War, Bangladesh Liberation War, Korean Air Lines Flight 902, Seven Days to the River Rhine, . , 1980s Soviet war in Afghanistan, 1980 and 1984 Summer Olympics boycotts, 1980 Turkish coup d'Atat, 1986 Black Sea incident, 1988 Black Sea bumping incident, Solidarity Soviet reaction, . , Contras, Central American crisis, RYAN, Korean Air Lines Flight 007, Able Archer 83, Star Wars, Invasion of Grenada, People Power Revolution, Nagorno-Karabakh War, Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, Fall of the Berlin Wall, Revolutions of 1989, Glasnost, Perestroika, . , 1990s Mongolian Revolution of 1990, Breakup of Yugoslavia, Dissolution of the Soviet Union, Dissolution of Czechoslovakia, . , Frozen conflicts Abkhazia, China, Korea, Nagorno-Karabakh, South Ossetia, Transnistria, Sino-Indian border dispute, . , Foreign policy Truman Doctrine, Marshall Plan, Containment, Eisenhower Doctrine, Domino theory, Hallstein Doctrine, Kennedy Doctrine, Peaceful coexistence, Ostpolitik, Johnson Doctrine, Brezhnev Doctrine, Nixon Doctrine, Ulbricht Doctrine, Carter Doctrine, Reagan Doctrine, Rollback, Sovereignty of Puerto Rico during the Cold War, . , Ideologies Capitalism Chicago school, Keynesianism, Monetarism, Neoclassical economics, Reaganomics, Supply-side economics, Thatcherism, . , . Communism MarxismaLeninism, Castroism, Eurocommunism, Guevarism, Hoxhaism, Juche, Maoism, Naxalism, Stalinism, Titoism, . , . Liberal democracy, Social democracy, . , Organizations ASEAN, CIA, Comecon, EEC, KGB, Non-Aligned Movement, SAARC, Safari Club, MI6, Stasi, . , Propaganda Active measures, Izvestia , Pravda , Crusade for Freedom, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Red Scare, TASS, Voice of America, Voice of Russia, . , Races Arms race, Nuclear arms race, Space Race, . , See also Brinkmanship, NATOaRussia relations, Soviet espionage in U.S., Russian espionage in U.S., Soviet UnionaUnited States relations, USaSoviet summits, . , Category , Portal, Timeline, List of conflicts, . , v , t , e , . Presidents of the Russian Federation , Boris Yeltsin , Alexander Rutskoy, Boris Yeltsin , Vladimir Putin, Dmitry Medvedev, Vladimir Putin, . , v , t , e , . Heads of government of Russia , note: Acting chairmen shown in italics . Questionable Heads of Government are written in small case . , Russian Empire 
Supreme Privy Council (Menshikov A Apraksin A Golovkin A Osterman A Dmitry Mikhailovich Golitsyn A Tolstoy A Karl Fridrikh Golsteyn-Gottorpsky A Aleksey Grigoryevich Dolgorukov), Vasily Lukich Dolgorukov, (Vasily Vladimirovich Dolgorukov A Mikhail Mikhailovich Golitsyn), . , Cabinet ministers Golovkin, Osterman, Minikh, Osterman, . , Conferency ministers (Stepan Fyodorovich Apraksin A Mikhail Petrovich Bestuzhev-Ryumin A Mikhail Mikhailovich Golitsyn A Alexey Petrovich Bestuzhev-Ryumin A Buturlin A Peter Ivanovich Shuvalov A Mikhail Illarionovich Vorontsov A Trubetskoy A Alexander Ivanovich Shuvalov A Romanov), (Shakhovsky A Neplyuev), Roman Illarionovich Vorontsov, . , Imperial Council (Georg Lyudwig Golshteyn-Gottorpsky A Golsteyn-Beksky A Minikh A Trubetskoy A M.I. Vorontsov A Vilbua A Volkonsky A Melgunov), . , Council Affairs Strekalov, Samoylov, Veydemeyer, Derzhavin, Veydemeyer, . , Committee of Ministers Vorontsov , Rumyantsev, Vyazmitinov , Nikolay Ivanovich Saltykov, Lopukhin, Kochubey, Novosiltsev, Vasilchikov, Levashov, Chernyshov, Orlov, Bludov, Gagarin, Ignatyev, Valuyev, Reytern, Bunge, Durnovo, Witte, Goremykin, Stolypin, Kokovtsov , Kokovtsov, Goremykin, Styurmer, Trepov, Golitsyn, . , Russian Republic Lvov, Kerensky, . , Russian SFSR Lenin, Rykov, Syrtsov, Sulimov, Bulganin, Vakhrushev, Khokhlov, Kosygin, Rodionov, Chernousov, Puzanov, Yasnov, Kozlov, Polyansky, Voronov, Solomentsev, Vorotnikov, Vlasov, Silayev, Lobov , Yeltsin , . , Soviet Union Lenin, Rykov, Molotov, Stalin, Malenkov, Bulganin, Khrushchev, Kosygin, Tikhonov, Ryzhkov, Pavlov, Silayev, . , Russian Federation Yeltsin , Gaidar, Chernomyrdin, Kiriyenko, Chernomyrdin , Primakov, Stepashin, Putin, Kasyanov, Khristenko , Fradkov, Zubkov, Putin, Medvedev, . , Council of Ministers of Russia, Heads of Government, Premiers of the USSR, . , v , t , e , . Heads of state of the Russian SFSR , Chairmen of the Presidium of
the Supreme Soviet Kamenev (1917), Sverdlov (1917a1919), Kalinin (1919a1938), Badayev (1938a1944), Shvernik (1944a1946), Vlasov (1946a1950), Tarasov (1950a1959), Ignatov (1959), Organov (1959a1962), Ignatov (1962a1966), Yasnov (1966a1985), Orlov (1985a1988), Vorotnikov (1988a1990), Yeltsin (1990a1991), Khasbulatov (1991-1993), . , President Yeltsin (1991-1993), . , Vice President Rutskoy (1991-1993), . , Acting Chairmen of the Presidium 
of the Supreme Soviet Vladimirsky (1919), Zhdanov (1938), Vlasov (1944), . , Heads of state of the USSR , Presidents of Russia , . , Authority control WorldCat, VIAF: 39414592 , LCCN: n83228407 , GND: 118900048 , SELIBR: 51579 , SUDOC: 029957109 , BNF: cb121472282 (data) , NLA: 35084333 , NDL: 00477605 , . , Persondata Name, Yeltsin, Boris Nikolayevich, Alternative names, DDNNDD, DDNDN DDDDDDDDDN (Russian); Eltsin., Short description, Political leader, President of Russia., Date of birth, 1931-02-01, Place of birth, Butka, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Soviet Union, Date of death, 2007-04-23, Place of death, Moscow, Russia, Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Boris_Yeltsin and oldid=632617902" Categories: 1931 births, 2007 deaths, People from Talitsky District, Politburo of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union candidate members, Presidents of Russia, Heads of government of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic, Heads of government of the Russian Federation, Defence ministers of Russia, Cold War leaders, Converts to Eastern Orthodoxy, Perestroika, Grand Crosses of the Order of Good Hope, Recipients of the Order of the Three Stars, 1st Class with Chain, Recipients of the Order of Merit for the Fatherland, 1st class, Recipients of the Order of Lenin, Recipients of the Order of the Red Banner of Labour, twice, Recipients of the Order of the Badge of Honour, Recipients of the Order of Francisc Skorina, Recipients of the Order of Prince Yaroslav the Wise, 1st class, Knights Grand Cross with Collar of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic, Recipients of the Order of the Three Stars, 1st Class, Grand Croix of the LAgion d'honneur, Recipients of the Olympic Order, Recipients of the Order of the Golden Eagle (Kazakhstan), Grand Crosses of the Order of the Cross of Vytis (Lithuania), Cardiovascular disease deaths in Russia, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Burials at Novodevichy Cemetery, . Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links, Articles with dead external links from November 2010, Articles containing Russian-language text, Articles with Russian-language external links, CS1 errors: missing author or editor, Use dmy dates from January 2013, Articles to be expanded from May 2014, Articles needing additional references from November 2010, All articles needing additional references, Wikipedia articles needing clarification from April 2014, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from April 2014, Articles with unsourced statements from April 2010, Articles with unsourced statements from January 2011, Articles needing additional references from April 2014, Vague or ambiguous time from April 2014, Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers, Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers, Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers, Wikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiers, Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers, Wikipedia articles with NLA identifiers, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
Afrikaans, DONNOD, OUOOOUO, AzErbaycanca, BAn-lAm-gA, DDNODNNND, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, Bikol Central, DNDDDNNDD, Bosanski, Brezhoneg, CatalA, DODDNDD, AeAtina, Cymraeg, Dansk, Deutsch, Eesti, IIIIIIII, EspaAol, Esperanto, Euskara, UOOOU, FranAais, Gaeilge, Galego, iei, OOOOOOO, aaaaaa, Hrvatski, Ido, Bahasa Indonesia, DNDD, Aslenska, Italiano, Basa Jawa, aaaaaaa, ODDDOND, Kiswahili, KurdA, DNNDNDND, Latina, LatvieAu, LAtzebuergesch, LietuviA, Magyar, DDDDDDDNDD, Malagasy, aaaaaa, Malti, aaaaa, aaaaaaaaa, Bahasa Melayu, Baso Minangkabau, DDDDDD, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, Occitan, DDND DDNDD, OEzbekcha, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, Runa Simi, DNNNDDD, DDND NNDD, SAmegiella, Sicilianu, Simple English, SlovenAina, SlovenAAina, AlAnski, DNDNDD / srpski, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Suomi, Svenska, Tagalog, aaaaa, DDNDNND/tatarAa, aaa, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, OOOU, VepsAn kela, Tiang Viat, Winaray, YorAbA, ce, AemaitAAka, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 5 November 2014 at 22:50.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
