
Politics of Brunei - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of Brunei 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Brunei , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Brunei , Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah , Constitution Privy Council , Prime Minister Hassanal Bolkiah , Cabinet, Succession Council, Islamic Religious Council, Legislative Council, Judiciary Civil courts Syariah Courts , Administrative divisions Districts, Mukims , . , Foreign relations Ministry of Foreign Affairs , Melayu Islam Beraja 
(national philosophy) , . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The politics of Brunei take place in a framework of an absolute monarchy, where by the Sultan of Brunei is both head of state and head of government. Executive power is exercised by the government. Brunei has a Legislative Council with 36 appointed members, that only has consultative tasks. Under Brunei's 1959 constitution, His Majesty Paduka Seri Baginda Sultan Haji Hassanal Bolkiah Mu'izzaddin Waddaulah, is the head of state with full executive authority, including emergency powers since 1962. The Sultan's role is enshrined in the national philosophy known as Melayu Islam Beraja ( MIB ), or Malay Islamic Monarchy. The country has been under hypothetical martial law since a rebellion occurred in the early 1960s and was put down by British troops from Singapore.
Contents
1 Executive branch 1.1 Privy Council , 1.2 Council of Succession , 1.3 Religious Council , 1.4 Council of Ministers , . , 2 Legislative branch 2.1 Composition , . , 3 Judicial branch , 4 Territorial disputes , 5 References , 6 External links , . 
Executive branch [ edit ] 
The Sultan is the head of state and head of government in Brunei. He exercises absolute powers and full executive authority under the framework of the 1959 Constitution. The Sultan is advised by and presides over five councils, which he appoints. The five councils are the Privy Council, Council of Succession, Religious Council, Council of Ministers and the Legislative Council. [ 1 ] 
Privy Council [ edit ] 
According to the Constitution, the Privy Council advises the Sultan in matters concerning the exercise of authority of mercy and the amendment or revocation of provisions in the Constitution. The council also advises the Sultan on the conferring of Malay customary ranks, titles and honours. It also performs functions such as proclaiming a succession of regency. Members of the Privy Council include members of the royal family and senior government officials. [ 2 ] 
Council of Succession [ edit ] 
The Council of Succession determines succession to the throne should that need arise. The order of succession is determined by the Constitution. [ 3 ] 
Religious Council [ edit ] 
The Religious Council, known in full as the Brunei Islamic Religious Council (BIRC) advises the Sultan on all matters pertaining to Islam. The body in charge of Islamic administration policy. Policies determined by the council are executed by the Ministry of Religious Affairs.
Members of the Religious Council include government ministers, a pengiran cheteria, pehin manteris, state mufti, the Attorney General, the Syarie Chief Justice and additional members appointed by the Sultan. [ 4 ] 
Council of Ministers [ edit ] 
Further information: Cabinet of Brunei 
A Council of Ministers, or cabinet, which currently consists of nine members (including the Sultan himself as Prime Minister), perform the day-to-day administrative functions of government.
Legislative branch [ edit ] 
Further information: Legislative Council of Brunei 
Under the 1959 constitution there was an elected Legislative Council (Malay: Majlis Mesyuarat Negera ), but only one election has ever been held, in 1962. Soon after that election, the assembly was dissolved following the declaration of a state of emergency, which saw the banning of the Brunei People's Party. In 1970 the Council was changed to an appointed body by decree of the Sultan. In 2004 the Sultan announced that for the next parliament, fouty five of the 20 seats would be elected. However, no date for the election has been set. [ 5 ] 
The Legislative Council currently consists of 20 appointed members, and has only consultative powers. Although there are no elections, the following legal parties exist:
Brunei National Solidarity Party (PPKB), Brunei People's Awareness Party (PAKAR), National Development Party (Brunei) (NDP), . 
Former parties include:
Brunei National Democratic Party (BNDP), Brunei People's Party (Parti Rakyat Brunei), . 
Composition [ edit ] 
ead Summary of the composition of the Brunei Legislative Council Members Seats Members appointed by the Sultan, 36, Total , 36 , Judicial branch [ edit ] 
Brunei has a dual legal system. The first is the system inherited from the British, similar to the ones found in India, Malaysia and Singapore. It is based on the English common law, but with codification of a significant part of it. The common law legal system covers most of the laws in Brunei.
The structure of the common law courts in Brunei starts with the magistracy. There are currently less than 10 magistrates for the country, all of whom are locals. A rung above the magistracy is the intermediate courts. This was set up to be a training ground for the local. There are currently two intermediate court judges, both are locals.
The High Court of the Supreme Court currently consist of three judges, two of whom are locals. The Chief Justice of is a High Court of Hong Kong judge.
There is no jury system in Brunei; a judge or magistrate sits alone to hear a case except for capital punishment cases where two High Court judges will sit.
The Court of Appeal of the Supreme Court consists of three Judges, all of whom are currently retired British judges. The Court of Appeal sits twice a year for about a month each time.
Appeals to the Privy Council of the United Kingdom in criminal cases are no longer available, whilst still retaining a very limited right of appeal to the Privy Council in civil cases.
The other system of Justice in Brunei is the shariah courts. It deals mainly in Muslim divorce and matters ancillary to a Muslim divorce in its civil jurisdiction and in the offences of khalwat (close proximity) and zina (illicit sex) amongst Muslims.
The shariah court structure is similar to the common law court structure except that it has no intermediate court and that the Court of Appeal is the final court of appeal.
All magistrates and judges in both the common law courts and the shariah courts are appointed by the Government. All local magistrates and judges were appointed from the civil service with none thus far being appointed from the private practice.
Territorial disputes [ edit ] 
Brunei claims the Limbang territory in Sarawak, Malaysia. But in 2009, a solution was achieved between the two governments when Brunei dropped all claims to Limbang, thus recognising it as a Malaysian territory. [ 6 ] The nation also is one of many nations to lay claim to the disputed Spratly Islands. Several small islands situated between Brunei and Labuan, Malaysia, including Kuraman island, are contested between Brunei and Malaysia. However, they are internationally recognised as part of the latter.
References [ edit ] 
^ "Prime Minister". Prime Minister's Office of Brunei . Retrieved 24 April 2011 . , ^ Fitri Shahminan (7 April 2011). "New members of Privy Council". Brunei Times . Retrieved 27 April 2011 . , ^ "The State of Brunei". Netty's Royalty . Retrieved 27 April 2011 . , ^ "HM attends religious council meeting". Brunei Times. 14 January 2009 . Retrieved 27 April 2011 . , ^ "Timeline: Brunei". BBC News. 11 January 2011 . Retrieved 24 April 2011 . , ^ "Brunei drops all claims to Limbang". The Brunei Times. 17 March 2009. Archived from the original on 29 October 2013 . Retrieved 12 January 2014 . , External links [ edit ] 
Brunei Royalty - The Scandal of Trust and Integrity, Government of Brunei Darussalam Official Website, Adam Carr's Election Archive, . 
v , t , e , . Elections in Brunei , General elections 1965, . , District Council elections 1962, . , v , t , e , . Political parties in Brunei , Brunei National Solidarity Party, Brunei People's Awareness Party, National Development Party, . 
Banned: Brunei People's Party
, v , t , e , . Politics of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei , Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . Association of Southeast Asian Nations , Politics 
Charter, Customs union, Date of Establishment, Organisations, Secretariat, Treaty of Amity and Cooperation, . , Symbols Anthem, Emblem, Flag, Hymn, . , Membership 
Brunei, Burma (Myanmar) , Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam, . , Observers Papua New Guinea, East Timor, . , Candidate Bangladesh, . , Events 
Summits ASEAN Summit, East Asia Summit, . , Other ASEAN Plus Three, Asian Monetary Unit, ASEAN Regional Forum, Asia-Europe Meeting, Chiang Mai Initiative, Comprehensive Economic Partnership for East Asia, Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, . , Competitions SEA Games, ASEAN University Games, ASEAN School Games, ASEAN Para Games, ASEAN Football Championship, . , Related ASEAN Free Trade Area, ASEANaChina Free Trade Area, ASEANaIndia Free Trade Area, Common Time, Economy, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_Brunei and oldid=631757772" Categories: Politics of Brunei, Lists of political parties by country, . Hidden categories: EngvarB from October 2014, Use dmy dates from October 2014, Articles containing Malay-language text, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
aaaaa, DNDDDNNDD, EspaAol, FranAais, Italiano, Bahasa Melayu, PortuguAs, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 30 October 2014 at 14:46.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
