
Federal budget of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Federal budget of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Part of a series on Government, Public finance , Policies Agricultural, Economic, Energy, Industrial, Investement, Social, Trade, . Fiscal, Monetary, Policy mix, . , Fiscal policy Budget policy , . , Debt external , internal , . , Deficit/ Surplus, Finance ministry, Fiscal union, Revenue, Spending deficit , . , Tax, . , Monetary policy Bank reserves
(requirements) , . Discount window, . Gold reserves, . Interest rate, . Monetary authority central bank , currency board , . , . Monetary base, . Monetary (currency) union, . Money supply, . , Trade policy Balance of trade, Free trade, Gains from trade, Non-tariff barrier, Protectionism, Tariff, Trade bloc, Trade creation, Trade diversion, Trade/ Commerce ministry, . , Revenue, Spending, . Non-tax revenue, Tax revenue, . Discretionary spending, Mandatory spending, . , Optimum Balanced budget (fiscal) , . Growth (trade and investment) , . Price stability (monetary) , . , Reform Fiscal adjustment, Monetary reform, . , v , t , e , . , The Federal budget of Russia (Russian: DDDDNDDNDND DNDDDN DDNNDD ) is the leading element of the Budget system of Russia. The federal budget is a major state financial plan for the fiscal year, which has the force of law after its approval by the Russian parliament and signed into law by the President of Russia. That the federal budget is the primary means of redistribution of national income and gross domestic product through it mobilized the financial resources necessary to regulate the country's economic development, social policy and the strengthening of the national defense. The share of federal budget accounts for a significant portion of the distribution process, which is the allocation of funds between sectors of the economy, manufacturing and industrial areas, regions of the country.
The right of the Russian Federation for an independent federal budget is enshrined by Article 71 of the Russian Constitution and the Budget Code of Russia that regulates the details of its formation and execution.
Contents
1 Budget Process , 2 Structure , 3 See also , 4 References , . 
Budget Process [ edit ] 
In accordance with the Budget Code, the Russian government prepare and introduce the State Duma, the lower house of the Russian parliament a draft federal budget for next fiscal year no later than October 1 of this year. The federal budget is developed in accordance with the provisions of the annual budget message of the President of the Russian Federation.
The federal budget is considered the State Duma in three readings (amendments to the Code). At first reading, the basic parameters of the budget are adopted. According to the Budget Code, during the first reading of the State Duma has the right to increase revenues and the federal budget deficit, if these changes are not the endorsement of the government. The State Duma can reject the draft budget. In this case, a conciliation commission in conjunction with the government. In the second reading of the State Duma approves the budget section by section, and the third is on the budget law as a whole. Following the adoption of the State Duma the federal budget, the law goes to the Federation Council, the upper house of the parliament, and then signed into law by the President.
Structure [ edit ] 
Difficulties in implementing fiscal reforms aimed at raising government revenues and a dependence on short-term borrowing to finance budget deficits led to a serious financial crisis in 1998. The Russian economy bounced back quickly from the 1998 crisis and enjoyed over 9 years of sustained growth averaging about 7ue to a devalued ruble, implementation of key economic reforms (taxation, banking, labor and land codes), tight fiscal policy, and favorable commodities prices. Russia ran a budget surplus from 2001 to 2008 when a financial crisis occurred.
Although the government revised its budget projections during 2009 to reflect lower oil prices and the effects of the economic crisis, it ended the year with a budget deficit amounting to 7.9f GDP, which it financed from the Reserve Fund, one of the governmentas two stabilization funds. The governmentas anti-crisis package in 2008 and 2009 amounted to about 6.7f GDP, according to World Bank estimates. The package provided support to the financial sector and enterprises through liquidity injections to banks and tax cuts/fiscal support to enterprises as well as modest support for households and small and medium enterprises and increased unemployment benefits.
In recent years, the highest rate of increased fiscal revenues associated with the production and export of mineral resources (tax on mineral extraction, oil export duties, etc.). In particular, the 2008 federal budget of Russia was formed on 50il and gas revenues (in 2006 the share of oil and gas revenues accounted for more than half, in 2003 it accounted for a quarter of the total income).
See also [ edit ] 
Account Chamber of Russia, Russian National Wealth Fund, . 
References [ edit ] 
This article incorporatespublic domain material from the United States Department of State document "Background Note".
v , t , e , . Economy of Russia , History Soviet Union, Privatization, 1998 financial crisis, Monetary reforms in Russia (1991, 1993, 1998), National Priority Projects, National champions, Stabilization Fund, Great Recession in Russia, Medvedev modernisation programme, Timeline of largest projects, . , Natural resources Timber, Mining, Aluminium, Oil reserves, Energy, Nuclear power, Geothermal power, Renewable energy, . , Agriculture Fishery, Hunting, Forestry, . , Industry Engineering, (Aircraft, Automotive, Tractor, timber and agricultural machinery, Defence, Shipbuilding, Space industry, Rolling stock manufacturers), Metallurgy, (Pipe Industry), Petroleum industry, Chemical industry, Science and technology, Food industry, . , Infrastructure Telecommunications, Transport Rail, Vehicle registration plates, . , . , Services Grocery retailing, Tourism, Gambling, Real estate, . , Finance Russian ruble, Account Chamber, Banking (Banks , Central Bank of Russia) , Federal budget , Moscow Exchange, National Pension Fund, Social Insurance Fund, Tax Code, Billionaires, . , Regional economies Natural resources of Primorsky Krai, Federal subjects by GRP, Federal subjects by GDP per capita, Federal subjects by HDI, Federal subjects by unemployment rate, . , Economic regions Central, Ural, North Caucasus, Volga, West Siberian, East Siberian, Volga-Vyatka, Northwestern, Central Black Earth, Far Eastern, Northern, . , Other Companies, Trade unions, . , Category, Commons, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget , Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . National government budgets , Australia, Canada, France, Germany, India, Norway, Russia , Switzerland, United Kingdom, United States, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Federal_budget_of_Russia and oldid=632653729" Categories: Government budgets by country, Economy of Russia, Government of Russia, . Hidden categories: Articles containing Russian-language text, Wikipedia articles incorporating text from the United States Department of State Background Notes, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DNNNDDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 6 November 2014 at 05:02.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
