
Politics of Cambodia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of Cambodia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (February 2013) , Cambodia , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Cambodia , Monarchy King Norodom Sihamoni , Throne Council, . , Government Prime Minister (list) Hun Sen , Deputy Prime Ministers Sar Kheng Tea Banh Hor Namhong Sok An Keat Chhon Men Sam An Yim Chhaily Kong Sam Ol , Cabinet, . , Parliament Senate President: Chea Sim , National Assembly President: Heng Samrin , Opposition Leader: Sam Rainsy , . , Elections National Election Committee, Recent elections General: 2003, 2008, 2013, . Senate: 2006, 2012, . , Political parties CPP , CNRP , CRPP , FUNCINPEC , . , . , Foreign relations Administrative divisions Provinces, Districts, Communes, . , Related issues Human rights, CambodianaThai border stand-off , 2013a14 Cambodian protests, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The politics of Cambodia takes place in a frame work of a constitutional monarchy, where by the Prime Minister is the head of government and a Monarch is head of state. The kingdom formally operates according to the nation's constitution (enacted in 1993) in a framework of a parliamentary, representative democracy. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in the two chambers of parliament, the National Assembly and the Senate.
Contents
1 Executive branch 1.1 Council of Ministers , . , 2 Legislative branch 2.1 Senate , 2.2 National Assembly , . , 3 Political parties and elections , 4 Judicial branch , 5 Monarchy 5.1 Succession to the throne , . , 6 International organization participation 6.1 International rankings , . , 7 Provincial and local governments , 8 Resources , 9 References , 10 External links 10.1 Royalty , 10.2 Official , 10.3 Other , . , . 
Executive branch [ edit ] 
Main office holders Office Name Party Since King, Norodom Sihamoni, 14 October 2004, Prime Minister, Hun Sen, CPP, 14 January 1985, The Prime Minister of Cambodia is a representative from the ruling party of the National Assembly. He or she is appointed by the King on the recommendation of the President and Vice Presidents of the National Assembly. In order for a person to become Prime Minister, he or she must first be given a vote of confidence by the National Assembly.
The Prime Minister is officially the Head of Government in Cambodia. Upon entry into office, he or she appoints a Council of Ministers who are responsible to the Prime Minister. Officially, the Prime Minister's duties include chairing meetings of the Council of Ministers (Cambodia's version of a Cabinet) and appointing and leading a government. The Prime Minister and his government make up Cambodia's executive branch of government.
The current Prime Minister is Cambodian People's Party (CPP) member Hun Sen. He has held this position since the criticized 1998 election, one year after the CPP staged a bloody coup in Phnom Penh [ 1 ] [ 2 ] to overthrow elected Prime Minister Prince Norodom Ranariddh, president of the FUNCINPEC party. Hun Sen has vowed to rule until he is 74. Hun Sen is a former Khmer Rouge member who defected and oversaw Cambodia's rise from the ashes of war. His government is regularly accused of ignoring human rights and suppressing political dissent. After the 2013 election results, disputed by Hun Sen's opposition, demonstrators were injured and killed in Cambodia in protests in the capital where a reported 20, 000 protesters gathered, some clashing with riot police. [ 3 ] From a humble farming background, Hun Sen was just 33 when he took power in 1985 and is now in the unenviable company of enduring dictators such as Zimbabwe's Robert Mugabe and Kazakhstan's Nursultan Nazarbayev'. [ 4 ] 
Norodom Sihamoni a King
, Hun Sen a Prime Minister
, . 
Council of Ministers [ edit ] 
Minister Name Party Prime Minister, Hun Sen, CPP, Deputy Prime Minister a Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Sok An, CPP, Deputy Prime Minister a Minister of the Interior, Sar Kheng, CPP, Deputy Prime Minister a Minister of National Defense, Tea Banh, CPP, Deputy Prime Minister a Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Hor Namhong, CPP, Deputy Prime Minister a Minister of National AssemblyaSenate Relations and Inspection, Men Sam An, CPP, Deputy Prime Minister a Minister of the Royal Palace, Kong Sam Ol, CPP, Deputy Prime Minister, Ke Kim Yan, CPP, Deputy Prime Minister, Yim Chhaily, CPP, Deputy Prime Minister, Keat Chhon, CPP, Deputy Prime Minister, Bin Chhin, CPP, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Ouk Rabun, CPP, Minister of Commerce, Sun Chanthol, CPP, Minister of Culture and Fine Arts, Phoeung Sakona, CPP, Minister of Education, Youth and Sport, Hang Chuon Naron, CPP, Minister of Economy and Finance, Aun Porn Moniroth, CPP, Minister of Environment, Sam Say Al, CPP, Minister of Health, Mam Bun Heng, CPP, Minister of Industry, Mining and Energy, Cham Prasidh, CPP, Minister of Information, Khieu Kanharith, CPP, Minister of Justice, Ang Vong Vathana, CPP, Minister of Labour and Vocational Training, Ith Sam Heng, CPP, Minister of Land Management, Urban Planning and Construction, Im Chhun Lim, CPP, Minister of Planning, Chhay Than, CPP, Minister of Posts and Telecommunications, Prak Sokhon, CPP, Minister of Public Works and Transport, Tram Iv Tek, CPP, Minister of Cults and Religion, Min Khin, CPP, Minister of Rural Development, Chea Sophara, CPP, Minister of Social Affairs, Veterans and Youth Rehabilitation, Vong Soth, CPP, Minister of Tourism, Thong Khon, CPP, Minister of Water Resources and Meteorology, Lim Kean Hor, CPP, Minister of Women's Affairs, Ing Kantha Pavy, CPP, Minister of Public Affairs, Pich Bun Thin, CPP, Legislative branch [ edit ] 
, This section is outdated . Please update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. (December 2013) , The legislative branch of the Cambodian government is made up of a bicameral parliament.
Structure of the 5th legislature (2013-2018) of the National Assembly. The National Assembly ( Radhsaphea ) has 123 members, elected for a five-year term by proportional representation., The Senate ( Protsaphea ) has 61 members. Two of these members are appointed by the King, two are elected by the lower house of the government, and the remaining fifty-seven are elected popularly by "functional constituencies." Members in this house serve a six-year term., . 
The official duty of the Parliament is to legislate and make laws. Bills passed by the Parliament are given to the King who gives the proposed bills Royal Assent. The King does not have veto power over bills passed by the National Assembly and thus, cannot withhold Royal Assent. The National Assembly also has the power to dismiss the Prime Minister and his government by a two-thirds vote of no confidence.
Senate [ edit ] 
The upper house of the Cambodian legislature is called the Senate . It consists of sixty-one members. Two of these members are appointed by the King, two are elected by the lower house of the government, and the remaining fifty-seven are elected popularly by electors from provincial and local governments, in a similar fashion to the Senate of France. Members in this house serve six-year terms.
Prior to 2006, elections had last been held for the Senate in 1999. New elections were supposed to have occurred in 2004, but these elections were initially postponed. On January 22, 2006, 11, 352 possible voters went to the poll and chose their candidates. This election was criticized by local monitoring non-governmental organizations as being undemocratic [1].
As of 2006 [update] , the Cambodian People's Party holds forty-three seats in the Senate, constituting a significant majority. The two other major parties holding seats in the Senate are the Funcinpec party (holding twelve seats) and the Sam Rainsy Party (holding two seats).
National Assembly [ edit ] 
The lower house of the legislature is called the National Assembly . It is made up of 123 members, elected by popular vote to serve a five-year term. Elections were last held for the National Assembly in July 2008.
In order to vote in legislative elections, one must be at least eighteen years of age. However, in order to be elected to the Legislature, one must be at least twenty-five years of age.
The National Assembly is led by a President and two Vice Presidents who are selected by Assembly members prior to each session.
As of 2009 [update] , the Cambodian People's Party holds a majority of the seats in the National Assembly, controlling 90 out of the 123 seats. The Sam Rainsy Party holds 26 seats and other parties hold the other 7 seats.
Political parties and elections [ edit ] 
Opposition leader and CNRP President Sam Rainsy Kem Sokha, vice-president of the CNRP. For other political parties see List of political parties in Cambodia. An overview on elections and election results is included in Elections in Cambodia. 
ead Summary of the 28 July 2013 National Assembly election results Party Votes th> Seats Cambodian People's Party, 3, 235, 969 , 48.83b>, 68 , Cambodia National Rescue Party, 2, 946, 176 , 44.46b>, 55 , FUNCINPEC, 242, 413, 3.66td> , a, League for Democracy Party, 68, 389, 1.03td> , a, Khmer Anti-Poverty Party, 43, 222, 0.65td> , a, Cambodian Nationality Party, 38, 123, 0.58td> , a, Khmer Economic Development Party, 33, 715, 0.51td> , a, Democratic Republican Party, 19, 152, 0.29td> , a, Total (turnout 68.0/b>, 6, 627, 159, 123, Source: National Election Committee, ead Summary of the 29 January 2012 Senate election results Party Votes th> Seats Cambodian People's Party, 8, 880, 77.81td> , 46, Sam Rainsy Party, 2, 503, 22.19td> , 11, Total (turnout) , 11, 383, 57, Source: MYsinchew.com, RFA, In addition to the general election, the King and National Assembly each choose two Senators, bringing the total to 61 members., . 
Judicial branch [ edit ] 
The judicial branch is independent from the rest of the government, as specified by the Cambodian Constitution. The highest court of judicial branch is the Supreme Council of the Magistracy. Other, lower courts also exist. Until 1997, Cambodia did not have a judicial branch of government despite the nation's Constitution requiring one.
The main duties of the judiciary are to prosecute criminals, settle lawsuits, and, most importantly, protect the freedoms and rights of Cambodian citizens. However, in reality, the judicial branch in Cambodia is highly corrupt and often serves as a tool of the executive branch to silence civil society and its leaders [2]. There are currently 17 justices on the Supreme Council.
Monarchy [ edit ] 
King Norodom Sihamoni 
Cambodia is a constitutional monarchy, i.e. the King reigns but does not rule, in similar fashion to Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom. The King is officially the Head of State and is the symbol of unity and "eternity" of the nation, as defined by Cambodia's constitution.
From September 24, 1993 through October 7, 2004, Norodom Sihanouk reigned as King, after having previously served in a number of offices (including King) since 1941. Under the Constitution, the King has no political power, but as Norodom Sihanouk was revered in the country, his word often carried much influence in the government. For example, in February 2004, he issued a proclamation stating that since Cambodia is a "liberal democracy, " the Kingdom ought to allow gay marriage. While such views aren't prevalent in Cambodia, his word was respected by his subjects. The King, often irritated over the conflicts in his government, several times threatened to abdicate unless the political factions in the government got along. This put pressure on the government to solve their differences. This influence of the King was often used to help mediate differences in government.
After the abdication of King Norodom Sihanouk in 2004, he was succeeded by his son Norodom Sihamoni. While the retired King was highly revered in his country for dedicating his lifetime to Cambodia, the current King has spent most of his life abroad in France. Thus, it remains to be seen whether the new King's views will be as highly respected as his father's.
Although in the Khmer language there are many words meaning "king", the word officially used in Khmer (as found in the 1993 Cambodian Constitution) is preahmAhaksat (Khmer regular script: ), which literally means: preah - ("sacred", cognate of the Indian word Brahmin) - mAha - (from Sanskrit, meaning "great", cognate with "maha-" in maharaja) - ksat ("warrior, ruler", cognate of the Indian word Kshatriya).
On the occasion of HM King Norodom Sihanouk's retirement in September 2004, the Cambodian National Assembly coined a new word for the retired king: preahmAhaviraksat (Khmer regular script: ), where vira comes from Sanskrit vAra , meaning "brave or eminent man, hero, chief", cognate of Latin vir , viris , English virile . PreahmAhaviraksat is translated in English as "King-Father" (French: Roi-PAre ), although the word "father" does not appear in the Khmer noun.
As preahmAhaviraksat , Norodom Sihanouk retained many of the prerogatives he formerly held as preahmAhaksat and was a highly respected and listened-to figure. Thus, in effect, Cambodia could be described as a country with two Kings during Sihanouk's lifetime: the one who was the Head of State, the preahmAhaksat Norodom Sihamoni, and the one who was not the Head of State, the preahmAhaviraksat Norodom Sihanouk.
Sihanouk died of a pulmonary infarction on October 15, 2012.
Succession to the throne [ edit ] 
Unlike most monarchies, Cambodia's monarchy is not necessarily hereditary and the King is not allowed to select his own heir. Instead, a new King is chosen by a Royal Council of the Throne, consisting of the president of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister, the Chiefs of the orders of Mohanikay and Thammayut, and the First and Second Vice-President of the Assembly. The Royal Council meets within a week of the King's death or abdication and selects a new King from a pool of candidates with royal blood.
It has been suggested that Cambodia's ability to peacefully appoint a new King shows that Cambodia's government has stabilized incredibly from the situation the country was in during the 1970s (see History of Cambodia).
International organization participation [ edit ] 
ACCT, AsDB, ASEAN, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), International Monetary Fund, Interpol, IOC, ISO (subscriber), ITU, NAM, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WB, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, WToO, WTrO (applicant)
International rankings [ edit ] 
Organization Survey Ranking Score Transparency International, Corruption Perceptions Index(2012), 164 Out of 184, 89.13td> United Nations Development Programme, Human Development Index(2012), 139 Out of 184, 75.5td> World Gold Council, Gold reserve(2010), 65 Out of 110, 60td> Reporters Without Borders, Worldwide Press Freedom Index(2012), 117 out of 179, 65.3td> Heritage Foundation, Indices of Economic Freedom(2012), 102 Out of 179, 57td> Global Competitiveness Report, World Economic Forum(2012), 97 out of 142, 68.3td> 
Provincial and local governments [ edit ] 
See also: Administrative divisions of Cambodia 
Below the central government are 24 provincial and municipal administration. [ 5 ] (In rural areas, first-level administrative divisions are called provinces; in urban areas, they are called municipalities.) The administrations are a part of the Ministry of the Interior and their members are appointed by the central government. [ 5 ] Provincial and municipal administrations participate in the creation of nation budget; they also issue land titles and license businesses. [ 5 ] 
Since 2002, commune-level governments (commune councils) have been composed of members directly elected by commune residents every five years. [ 6 ] 
In practice, the allocation of responsibilities between various levels of government is uncertain. [ 5 ] This uncertainty has created additional opportunities for corruption and increased costs for investors. [ 5 ] 
Resources [ edit ] 
, This section is empty. You can help by adding to it. (June 2011) , References [ edit ] 
^ http://cambodia.ohchr.org/Documents/Statements and Speeches/English/40.pdf , ^ http://www.hri.org/docs/statedep/1997/97-07-08.std.html , ^ http://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/asiapacific/cambodia-protest-clashes/814406.html Retrieved September-16-2013 , ^ http://www.reuters.com/article/2013/09/18/us-cambodia-hunsen-analysis-idUSBRE98H04K20130918 Retrieved September-19-2013 , ^ a b c d e Private Solutions for Infrastructure in Cambodia: A Country Framework Report . World Bank (2002), p65. ISBN 0-8213-5076-5. , ^ Untitled Document , External links [ edit ] 
Global Integrity Report: Cambodia reports on corruption and anti-corruption in Cambodia, . 
Royalty [ edit ] 
King of Cambodia, Norodom Sihamoni Official Website of King Norodom Sihamoni, King of Cambodia, Norodom Sihanouk Official Website of former King Norodom Sihanouk, . 
Official [ edit ] 
Cambodia.gov.kh Official Royal Government of Cambodia Website (English Version) (Cambodia.gov.kh Khmer Version), CDC Council for the Development of Cambodia, Conseil Constitutionnel du Cambodge Constitution council of Cambodia, Department of Fisheries, Food Security and Nutrition Information System Cambodia, Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Culture and Fine Arts, Ministry of Economy and Finance, Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport, Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications, Ministry of Public Works and Transport, Ministry of Tourism, NiDA National Information Communications Technology Development Authority, Ministry of Planning, NIS National Institute of Statistics of Cambodia, . 
Other [ edit ] 
Constitution of Cambodia, . 
v , t , e , . Politics of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia , China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_Cambodia and oldid=630996379" Categories: Politics of Cambodia, Government of Cambodia, Politics of Southeast Asia, . Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from February 2013, All articles needing additional references, Wikipedia articles in need of updating from December 2013, All Wikipedia articles in need of updating, Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2006, All articles containing potentially dated statements, Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2009, Articles containing French-language text, Articles to be expanded from June 2011, All articles to be expanded, Articles with empty sections from June 2011, All articles with empty sections, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
aaaaa, DNDDDNNDD, FranAais, Suomi, aaa, Tiang Viat, . Edit links This page was last modified on 24 October 2014 at 23:49.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
