
Caspian Sea - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Caspian Sea 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Caspian Sea The Caspian Sea as captured by the MODIS on the orbiting Terra satellite, June 2003 , Coordinates 41A40aN 50A40aE i / i 41.667AN 50.667AE i / 41.667; 50.667 Coordinates: 41A40aN 50A40aE i / i 41.667AN 50.667AE i / 41.667; 50.667 , Type Endorheic, Saline, Permanent, Natural, Primary inflows 
Volga River, Ural River, Kura River, Terek River
Historically: Amu Darya, Primary outflows Evaporation, Catchment area 3, 626, 000km 2 (1, 400, 000sqmi) [ 1 ] , Basincountries 
Azerbaijan, Iran, Kazakhstan, Russia, Turkmenistan
Historically also Uzbekistan, Max. length 1, 030km (640mi), Max. width 435km (270mi), Surface area 371, 000km 2 (143, 200sqmi), Average depth 211m (690ft), Max. depth 1, 025m (3, 360ft), Water volume 78, 200km 3 (18, 800cumi), Residencetime 250 years, Shore length 1 7, 000km (4, 300mi), Surface elevation a28m (a92ft), Islands 26+, Settlements Baku (Azerbaijan), Rasht (Iran), Aktau (Kazakhstan), Makhachkala (Russia), TArkmenbaAy (Turkmenistan) ( see article ), References [ 1 ] , 1 Shore length is not a well-defined measure., The Caspian Sea (Russian: DDNDDDNDDD DDND , Azerbaijani: XEzEr dEnizi , Kazakh: DDNDDD NDONDN , Persian: OOUOU OOO DaryA-i Xazar , OOUOU UOOUOOOU DaryA-i MAzandarAn a, Turkmen: Hazar deAizi , Georgian: aaaaaaa aaaa ) is the largest enclosed inland body of water on Earth by area, variously classed as the world's largest lake or a full-fledged sea. [ 2 ] [ 3 ] The sea has a surface area of 371, 000km 2 (143, 200sqmi) (not including GarabogazkAl Aylagy) and a volume of 78, 200km 3 (18, 800cumi). [ 4 ] It is in an endorheic basin (it has no outflows) and is bounded to the northeast by Kazakhstan, to the northwest by Russia, to the west by Azerbaijan, to the south by Iran, and to the southeast by Turkmenistan.
The ancient inhabitants of its coast perceived the Caspian Sea as an ocean, probably because of its saltiness and seeming boundlessness. It has a salinity of approximately 1.212 g/l), about a third of the salinity of most seawater.
Contents
1 Etymology , 2 Physical characteristics 2.1 Formation , 2.2 Geography , 2.3 Hydrology , 2.4 Environmental degradation , . , 3 Nature 3.1 Fauna , 3.2 Flora , . , 4 History 4.1 Cities 4.1.1 Ancient , 4.1.2 Modern , . , . , 5 Oil extraction 5.1 Political issues , . , 6 Territorial status 6.1 Cross-border inflow , . , 7 Transport 7.1 Canals , . , 8 See also , 9 References , 10 External links , . 
Etymology [ edit ] 
The word Caspian is derived from the name of the Caspi (Aramaic: Kspy, Greek: Kaspioi, Persian: UOOUU a), ancient people who lived to the south-west of the sea in Transcaucasia. [ 5 ] Strabo wrote that "to the country of the Albanians belongs also the territory called Caspiane, which was named after the Caspian tribe, as was also the sea; but the tribe has now disappeared". [ 6 ] Moreover, the Caspian Gates, which is the name of a region in Tehran province of Iran, possibly indicates that they migrated to the south of the sea. The Iranian city Qazvin shares the root of its name with that of the sea. In fact, the traditional Arabic name for the sea itself is Bahr al-Qazwin (Sea of Qazvin). [ 7 ] 
In classical antiquity among Greeks and Persians it was called the Hyrcanian Ocean . [ 8 ] In Persian antiquity, as well as in modern Iran, it is known as the Mazandaran Sea (Persian: OOUOU UOOUOOOU a). In Iran, it is also referred as DaryA-i Xazar sometimes. [ 9 ] Among Indians it was called Kashyap Sagar . In Turkic-speaking countries it is known as the Khazar Sea . Old Russian sources call it the Khvalyn or Khvalis Sea (DDDDNDNDDD DDND / DDDDDNNDDD DDND) after the name of Khwarezmia. [ 10 ] Ancient Arabic sources refer to it as Baar GAlAn (OOO OUUOU) meaning "the Gilan Sea".
Turkic languages use a consistent nomenclature that is different from the Indo-European languages above. For instance, in Turkmen, the name is Hazar deAizi , in Azeri, it is XEzEr dEnizi , and in modern Turkish, it is Hazar denizi . In all these cases, the second word simply means "sea", and the first word refers to the historical Khazars who had a large empire based to the north of the Caspian Sea between the 7th and 10th centuries.
Physical characteristics [ edit ] 
Formation [ edit ] 
Caspian Sea in map of Iran provinces in Abbasid Caliphate written in Persian OOO OOO, in English: Bahr-e- Khazar (top) 
The Caspian Sea, like the Aral Sea and Black Sea, is a remnant of the ancient Paratethys Sea. It became landlocked about 5.5 million years ago due to tectonic uplift and a fall in sea level. During warm and dry climatic periods, the landlocked sea almost dried up, depositing evaporitic sediments like halite that were covered by wind-blown deposits and were sealed off as an evaporite sink [ 11 ] when cool, wet climates refilled the basin. [ 12 ] Due to the current inflow of fresh water, the Caspian Sea is a freshwater lake in its northern portions. It is more saline on the Iranian shore, where the catchment basin contributes little flow. Currently, the mean salinity of the Caspian is one third that of the Earth's oceans. The GarabogazkAl embayment, which dried up when water flow from the main body of the Caspian was blocked in the 1980s but has since been restored, routinely exceeds oceanic salinity by a factor of 10. [ 2 ] 
Geography [ edit ] 
Map of the Caspian Sea, yellow shading indicates Caspian drainage basin. (Since this map was drawn, the adjacent Aral Sea has greatly decreased in size) 
The Caspian Sea is the largest inland body of water in the world and accounts for 40 to 44f the total lacustrine waters of the world. [ 13 ] The coastlines of the Caspian are shared by Azerbaijan, Iran, Kazakhstan, Russia, and Turkmenistan. The Caspian is divided into three distinct physical regions: the Northern, Middle, and Southern Caspian. [ 14 ] The NorthernaMiddle boundary is the Mangyshlak Threshold, which runs through Chechen Island and Cape Tiub-Karagan. The MiddleaSouthern boundary is the Apsheron Threshold, a sill of tectonic origin between the Eurasian continent and an oceanic remnant, [ 15 ] that runs through Zhiloi Island and Cape Kuuli. [ 16 ] The GarabogazkAl Bay is the saline eastern inlet of the Caspian, which is part of Turkmenistan and at times has been a lake in its own right due to the isthmus that cuts it off from the Caspian.
Differences between the three regions are dramatic. The Northern Caspian only includes the Caspian shelf, [ 17 ] and is very shallow; it accounts for less than 1f the total water volume with an average depth of only 5a6 metres (16a20ft). The sea noticeably drops off towards the Middle Caspian, where the average depth is 190 metres (620ft). [ 16 ] The Southern Caspian is the deepest, with oceanic depths of over 1, 000 metres (3, 300ft). The Middle and Southern Caspian account for 33nd 66f the total water volume, respectively. [ 14 ] The northern portion of the Caspian Sea typically freezes in the winter, and in the coldest winters ice forms in the south as well. [ 18 ] 
Over 130 rivers provide inflow to the Caspian, with the Volga River being the largest. A second affluent, the Ural River, flows in from the north, and the Kura River flows into the sea from the west. In the past, the Amu Darya (Oxus) of Central Asia in the east often changed course to empty into the Caspian through a now-desiccated riverbed called the Uzboy River, as did the Syr Darya farther north. The Caspian also has several small islands; they are primarily located in the north and have a collective land area of roughly 2, 000km 2 (770sqmi). Adjacent to the North Caspian is the Caspian Depression, a low-lying region 27 metres (89ft) below sea level. The Central Asian steppes stretch across the northeast coast, while the Caucasus mountains hug the western shore. The biomes to both the north and east are characterized by cold, continental deserts. Conversely, the climate to the southwest and south are generally warm with uneven elevation due to a mix of highlands and mountain ranges; the drastic changes in climate alongside the Caspian have led to a great deal of biodiversity in the region. [ 2 ] 
The Caspian Sea has numerous islands throughout, all of them near the coasts. There are none in the deeper parts of the sea. Ogurja Ada is the largest island. The island is 37km (23mi) long, with gazelles roaming freely on it. In the North Caspian, the majority of the islands are small and uninhabited, like the Tyuleniy Archipelago, an Important Bird Area (IBA), although some of them have human settlements.
Hydrology [ edit ] 
Caspian Sea near Aktau, Mangistau region, Kazakhstan. Caspian Sea Khezeshahr beach 
The Caspian has characteristics common to both seas and lakes. It is often listed as the world's largest lake, although it is not a freshwater lake. It contains about 3.5 times more water, by volume, than all five of North America's Great Lakes combined. The Caspian was once part of the Tethys Ocean, but became landlocked about 5.5 million years ago due to plate tectonics. [ 13 ] The Volga River (about 80f the inflow) and the Ural River discharge into the Caspian Sea, but it has no natural outflow other than by evaporation. Thus the Caspian ecosystem is a closed basin, with its own sea level history that is independent of the eustatic level of the world's oceans. The level of the Caspian has fallen and risen, often rapidly, many times over the centuries. Some Russian historians [ who? ] claim that a medieval rising of the Caspian, perhaps caused by the Amu Darya changing its inflow to the Caspian from the 13th century to the 16th century, caused the coastal towns of Khazaria, such as Atil, to flood. In 2004, the water level was 28m (92ft) below sea level.
Over the centuries, Caspian Sea levels have changed in synchrony with the estimated discharge of the Volga, which in turn depends on rainfall levels in its vast catchment basin. Precipitation is related to variations in the amount of North Atlantic depressions that reach the interior, and they in turn are affected by cycles of the North Atlantic Oscillation. Thus levels in the Caspian Sea relate to atmospheric conditions in the North Atlantic thousands of miles to the northwest. [ citation needed ] 
The last short-term sea-level cycle started with a sea-level fall of 3m (9.84ft) from 1929 to 1977, followed by a rise of 3m (9.84ft) from 1977 until 1995. Since then smaller oscillations have taken place. [ 19 ] 
Environmental degradation [ edit ] 
The Volga River, the largest in Europe, drains 20f the European land area and is the source of 80f the Caspianas inflow. Its lower reaches are heavily developed with numerous unregulated releases of chemical and biological pollutants. Although existing data are sparse and of questionable quality, there is ample evidence to suggest that the Volga is one of the principal sources of transboundary contaminants into the Caspian. The magnitude of fossil fuel extraction and transport activity constitute risks to water quality. Underwater oil and gas pipelines have been constructed or proposed, increasing potential environmental threats. [ 20 ] 
Vulf, Azerbaijan has been affected by ecological damage because of the petrochemical industry. This has significantly decreased species of marine birds in the area.
Nature [ edit ] 
Fauna [ edit ] 
Illustration of two Caspian tigers, extinct since the 1970s. Iran's northern Caspian Hyrcanian mixed forests are maintained by moisture captured from the Caspian Sea by the Alborz mountain range of Gilan, Iran. 
Sturgeon inhabit the Caspian Sea in great numbers, and yield roe (eggs) that are processed into caviar. Overfishing has depleted a number of the historic fisheries including the economic exhaustion of the tuna fishery. [ 21 ] In recent years overfishing has threatened the sturgeon population to the point that environmentalists advocate banning sturgeon fishing completely until the population recovers. However, the high price of sturgeon caviar allows fisherman to afford bribes to ensure the authorities look the other way, making regulations in many locations ineffective. [ 22 ] Caviar harvesting further endangers the fish stocks, since it targets reproductive females.
The zebra mussel and the common carp are native to the Caspian and Black Seas, but have become invasive species elsewhere, when introduced.
The area has given its name to several species, including the Caspian gull and the Caspian tern. The Caspian seal ( Pusa caspica ) is endemic to the Caspian Sea, and is one of very few seal species that live in inland waters. There are several species and subspecies of fish endemic to the Caspian Sea, including the kutum (also known as the Caspian white fish), Caspian marine shad, Caspian roach, Caspian bream (some report that the bream occurring in the Aral Sea is the same subspecies), and a Caspian "salmon" (a subspecies of trout, Salmo trutta caspiensis ), which is critically endangered. [ 22 ] 
Flora [ edit ] 
Many rare and endemic plant species of Russia are associated with the tidal areas of the Volga delta and riparian forests of the Samur River delta. The shoreline is also a unique refuge for plants adapted to the loose sands of the Central Asian Deserts. The principal limiting factors to successful establishment of plant species are hydrological imbalances within the surrounding deltas, water pollution, and various land reclamation activities. The water level change within the Caspian Sea is an indirect reason for which plants may not get established. This affects aquatic plants of the Volga delta, such as Aldrovanda vesiculosa and the native Nelumbo caspica . About 11 plant species are found in the Samur River delta, including the unique liana forests that date back to the Tertiary period.
The rising level of the Caspian Sea between 1994a96 reduced the number of habitats for rare species of aquatic vegetation. This has been attributed to a general lack of seeding material in newly formed coastal lagoons and water bodies.
History [ edit ] 
Caspian Sea (Bahr ul-Khazar). Ibn Hawqal Caspian Sea map from 1747 The 17th-century Cossack rebel and pirate Stenka Razin, on a raid in the Caspian (Vasily Surikov, 1906) 
The earliest hominid remains found around the Caspian Sea are from Dmanisi dating back to around 1.8 Ma and yielded a number of skeletal remains of Homo erectus or Homo ergaster. More later evidence for human occupation of the region come from a number of caves in Georgia and Azerbaijan such as Kudaro and Azykh Caves. There is evidence for Lower Palaeolithic human occupation south of the Caspian from western Alburz. These are Ganj Par and Darband Cave sites. Neanderthal remains also have been discovered at a cave site in Georgia. Discoveries in the Huto cave and the adjacent Kamarband cave, near the town of Behshahr, Mazandaran south of the Caspian in Iran, suggest human habitation of the area as early as 11, 000 years ago. [ 23 ] [ 24 ] 
The Caspian area is rich in energy resources. Wells were being dug in the region as early as the 10th century. [ 25 ] By the 16th century, Europeans were aware of the rich oil and gas deposits around the area. English traders Thomas Bannister and Jeffrey Duckett described the area around Baku as aa strange thing to behold, for there issueth out of the ground a marvelous quantity of oil, which serveth all the country to burn in their houses. This oil is black and is called nefte. There is also by the town of Baku, another kind of oil which is white and very precious (i.e., petroleum)." [ 26 ] 
In 1950, the construction of Main Turkmen Canal was started under the orders of Joseph Stalin. The waterway, which would be used for shipping, not irrigation, was to run from Nukus on the Amu-Darya to Krasnovodsk on the Caspian Sea thus connecting the Amu-Darya and the Aral Sea to the Caspian. However the project was abandoned soon after the death of Stalin. The project was dropped in favor of the Qaraqum Canal, which runs on a more southerly route but does not reach the Caspian. [ 27 ] 
Cities [ edit ] 
Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan is the largest city by the Caspian Sea. 
Ancient [ edit ] 
Hyrcania, ancient state in the north of Iran, Anzali, Gilan province of Iran, Astara, Gilan province of Iran, Astarabad, Mazandaran Province of Iran, Tamisheh, Mazandaran province of Iran, Atil, Khazaria, Khazaran, Baku, Azerbaijan, Derbent, Dagestan, Russia, . 
Modern [ edit ] 
Iran: Ali Abad, Astaneh-ye Ashrafiyeh, Astara, Babolsar, Bandar Anzali, Bandar-e-gaz, Bandar Torkaman, Behshahr, Chaloos, Fenderesk, Gomishan, Gonbad-e Kavus, Gorgan, Jooybar, Kordkuy, Lahijan, Langrud, MahmudAbad, Neka, Nowshahr, Nur, Ramsar, Rasht, Rudbar, Rudsar, Sari, Tonekabon, . , . , Azerbaijan: Astara, Baku, Gobustan, Khudat, Khachmaz, Lankaran, Masalli, Nabran, Neftchala, Shabran, Siyazan, Oil Rocks, Sumqayit, . , . , Kazakhstan: Atyrau (formerly Guriev), Aqtau (formerly Shevchenko), . , . , Russia: Astrakhan, Dagestanskiye Ogni, Derbent, Izberbash, Kaspiysk, Makhachkala, . , . , Turkmenistan: TArkmenbaAy (formerly Krasnovodsk), Hazar (formerly Aeleken), Esenguly, Garabogaz (formerly BekdaA), . , . , Oil extraction [ edit ] 
Oil pipelines in the Caspian region. September 2002. 
The worldas first offshore wells and machine-drilled wells were made in Bibi-Heybat Bay, near Baku, Azerbaijan. In 1873, exploration and development of oil began in some of the largest fields known to exist in the world at that time on the Absheron peninsula near the villages of Balakhanli, Sabunchi, Ramana and Bibi Heybat. Total recoverable reserves were more than 500 million tons. By 1900, Baku had more than 3, 000 oil wells, 2, 000 of which were producing at industrial levels. By the end of the 19th century, Baku became known as the "black gold capital", and many skilled workers and specialists flocked to the city.
By the turn of the 20th century, Baku was the center of international oil industry. In 1920, when the Bolsheviks captured Azerbaijan, all private property a including oil wells and factories a was confiscated. Afterwards, the republic's entire oil industry came under the control of the Soviet Union. By 1941, Azerbaijan was producing a record 23.5 million tons of oil, and the Baku region supplied nearly 72f all oil extracted in the entire USSR. [ 25 ] 
In 1994, the "Contract of the Century" was signed, signaling the start of major international development of the Baku oil fields. The BakuaTbilisiaCeyhan pipeline, a major pipeline allowing Azerbaijan oil to flow straight to the Turkish Mediterranean port of Ceyhan, opened in 2006.
Political issues [ edit ] 
Many of the islands along the Azerbaijani coast continue to hold significant geopolitical and economic importance because of the potential oil reserves found nearby. Bulla Island, PirallahA Island, and Nargin - which was used as a former Soviet base and is the largest island in the Baku bay, all hold oil reserves.
The collapse of the USSR and subsequent opening of the region has led to an intense investment and development scramble by international oil companies. In 1998 Dick Cheney commented that "I can't think of a time when we've had a region emerge as suddenly to become as strategically significant as the Caspian." [ 28 ] 
A key problem to further development in the region is the status of the Caspian Sea and the establishment of the water boundaries among the five littoral states (see below). The current disputes along Azerbaijan's maritime borders with Turkmenistan and Iran could potentially affect future development plans.
Much controversy currently exists over the proposed Trans-Caspian oil and gas pipelines. These projects would allow western markets easier access to Kazakh oil, and potentially Uzbek and Turkmen gas as well. Russia officially opposes the project on environmental grounds. Analysts note that the pipelines would bypass Russia completely, thereby denying the country valuable transit fees, as well as destroying its current monopoly on westward-bound hydrocarbon exports from the region. [ 29 ] Recently both Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan have expressed their support for the Trans-Caspian Pipeline. [ 30 ] 
US diplomatic cables disclosed by WikiLeaks revealed that BP covered up a gas leak and blowout incident in September 2008 at an operating gas field in the Azeri-Chirag-Guneshi area of the Azerbaijan Caspian Sea. [ 31 ] [ 32 ] 
Territorial status [ edit ] 
Southern Caspian Energy Prospects (portion of Iran). Country Profile 2004 Caspian Sea, Azerbaijan. 
Negotiations related to the demarcation of the Caspian Sea have been going on for nearly a decade among the states bordering the Caspian a Azerbaijan, Russia, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Iran. The status of the Caspian Sea [ 33 ] is the key problem. Access to mineral resources (oil and natural gas), access for fishing and access to international waters (through Russia's Volga river and the canals connecting it to the Black Sea and Baltic Sea) all depend upon the outcomes of negotiations. Access to the Volga River is particularly important for the landlocked states of Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan. This concerns Russia, because this potential traffic would utilise its inland waterways. If a body of water is labeled as sea then there would be some precedents and international treaties obliging the granting of access permits to foreign vessels. If a body of water is labeled merely as lake then there are no such obligations. Environmental issues are also somewhat connected to the status and borders issue.
All five Caspian littoral states maintain naval forces on the sea. [ 34 ] It should be mentioned that Russia got the bulk of the former Soviet Caspian military fleet and has the most powerful military presence in the sea. Fewer assets were assigned to Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan.
According to a treaty signed between Iran (Persia) and the Soviet Union, the Caspian Sea is technically a lake and was divided into two sectors (Persian and Soviet), but the resources (then mainly fish) were commonly shared. The line between the two sectors was considered an international border in a common lake, like Lake Albert. The Soviet sector was sub-divided into the four littoral republics' administrative sectors.
Russia, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan have bilateral agreements with each other based on median lines. Because of their use by the three nations, median lines seem to be the most likely method of delineating territory in future agreements. However, Iran insists on a single, multilateral agreement between the five nations (as this is the only way for it to achieve a one-fifth share of the sea). Azerbaijan is at odds with Iran over some oil fields that both states claim. Occasionally, Iranian patrol boats have fired at vessels sent by Azerbaijan for exploration into the disputed region. There are similar tensions between Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan (the latter claims that the former has pumped more oil than agreed from a field, recognized by both parties as shared).
The Caspian littoral states' meeting in 2007 signed an agreement that bars any ship not flying the national flag of a littoral state from entering the sea. [ 35 ] 
Cross-border inflow [ edit ] 
UNECE recognizes several rivers that cross international borders which flow into the Caspian Sea. [ 36 ] These are:
River Countries Atrek River, IR, TM, Kura River, AM, AZ, GE, IR, TR, Ural River, KZ, RU, Samur River, AZ, RU, Sulak River, GE, RU, Terek River, GE, RU, Transport [ edit ] 
Although the Caspian Sea is endorheic, its main tributary, the Volga, is connected by important shipping canals with the Don River (and thus the Black Sea) and with the Baltic Sea, with branch canals to Northern Dvina and to the White Sea.
Another Caspian tributary, the Kuma River, is connected by an irrigation canal with the Don basin as well.
Several scheduled ferry services (including train ferries) operate on the Caspian Sea, including:
a line between TArkmenbaAy, Turkmenistan (formerly Krasnovodsk) and Baku., a line between Baku and Aktau., several lines between cities in Iran and Russia., . 
The ferries are mostly used for cargo, only the Baku a Aktau and Baku a TArkmenbaAy routes accept passengers.
Canals [ edit ] 
As an endorheic basin, the Caspian Sea basin has no natural connection with the ocean. Since the medieval period, traders reached the Caspian via a number of portages that connected the Volga and its tributaries with the Don (which flows into the Sea of Azov) and various rivers that flow into the Baltic. Primitive canals connecting the Volga Basin with the Baltic have been constructed as early as the early 18th century; since then, a number of canal projects have been completed. The two modern canal system connecting the Volga basin with the ocean are the VolgaaBaltic Waterway and the VolgaaDon Canal.
The proposed Pechora-Kama Canal was a project that was widely discussed between the 1930s and 1980s. Shipping was a secondary consideration; its main goal was to redirect some of the water of the Pechora River (which flows into the Arctic Ocean) via the Kama into the Volga. The goals were both irrigation and stabilizing the water level in the Caspian, which was thought to be falling dangerously fast at the time. In 1971 some construction experiments were conducted using nuclear explosions.
In June 2007, in order to boost his oil-rich country's access to markets, Kazakhstan's President Nursultan Nazarbaev proposed a 700-kilometre (435-mile) link between the Caspian and Black seas. It is hoped that the "Eurasia Canal" (Manych Ship Canal) would transform the landlocked Kazakhstan and other Central Asian countries into maritime states, enabling them to significantly increase trade volume. While the canal would traverse Russian territory, it would benefit Kazakhstan through its Caspian Sea ports. The most likely route for the canal, the officials at the Committee on Water Resources at Kazakhstan's Agriculture Ministry say, would follow the Kuma-Manych Depression, where currently a chain of rivers and lakes is already connected by an irrigation canal (Kuma-Manych Canal). Upgrading the VolgaaDon Canal would be another option. [ 37 ] 
See also [ edit ] 
Baku Oil Fields, Caspian people, Ekranoplan, a ground effect plane which was developed on the Caspian Sea., Epoch of Extremal Inundations, Framework Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Caspian Sea, Shah Deniz gas field, South Caucasus pipeline, Southern Gas Corridor, Tengiz Field, Trans-Caspian Gas Pipeline, Trans-Caspian Oil Pipeline, . 
References [ edit ] 
Notes 
^ a b van der Leeden, Troise, and Todd, eds., The Water Encyclopedia. Second Edition. Chelsea, MI: Lewis Publishers, 1990, p. 196. , ^ a b c "Caspian Sea - Background". Caspian Environment Programme. 2009 . Retrieved 11 September 2012 . , ^ "ESA: Observing the Earth a Earth from Space: The southern Caspian Sea". ESA.int . Retrieved 2007-05-25 . , ^ Lake Profile: Caspian Sea. LakeNet. , ^ Caspian Sea in EncyclopAdia Britannica. , ^ "Strabo. Geography. 11.3.1". Perseus.tufts.edu . Retrieved 2011-04-14 . , ^ Iran (5th ed., 2008), by Andrew Burke and Mark Elliott, p. 28, Lonely Planet Publications, ISBN 978-1-74104-293-1 , ^ Hyrcania. www.livius.org. Retrieved on 2012-05-20. , ^ Drainage Basins a Caspian Sea. Briancoad.com. Retrieved on 2012-05-20. , ^ Max Vasmer, Etimologicheskii slovar' russkogo yazyka , Vol. IV (Moscow: Progress, 1973), p. 229. , ^ In system dynamics, a sink is a place where a flow of materials ends its journey, removed from the system. , ^ Comparable evaporite beds underlie the Mediterranean. , ^ a b "Caspian Sea". Iran Gazette. Archived from the original on 2009-01-22 . Retrieved 2010-05-17 . , ^ a b Hooshang Amirahmadi (10 June 2000). The Caspian Region at a Crossroad: Challenges of a New Frontier of Energy and Development . Palgrave Macmillan. pp.112a. ISBN978-0-312-22351-9 . Retrieved 20 May 2012 . , ^ Khain V. E. Gadjiev A. N. Kengerli T. N (2007). "Tectonic origin of the Apsheron Threshold in the Caspian Sea". Doklady Earth Sciences 414 : 552a556. doi:10.1134/S1028334X07040149. , ^ a b Henri J. Dumont; Tamara A. Shiganova; Ulrich Niermann (20 July 2004). Aquatic Invasions in the Black, Caspian, and Mediterranean Seas . Springer. ISBN978-1-4020-1869-5 . Retrieved 20 May 2012 . , ^ A. G. Kostianoi and A. Kosarev (16 December 2005). The Caspian Sea Environment . BirkhAuser. ISBN978-3-540-28281-5 . Retrieved 20 May 2012 . , ^ Caspian Sea frozen at Azerbaijani coast , ^ "Welcome to the Caspian Sea Level Project Site". Caspage.citg.tudelft.nl. Archived from the original on 2011-07-24 . Retrieved 2010-05-17 . , ^ "Caspian Environment Programme". caspianenvironment.org . Retrieved 30 October 2012 . , ^ C. Michael Hogan Overfishing . Encyclopedia of Earth. eds. Sidney Draggan and Cutler Cleveland. National Council for Science and the Environment, Washington DC , ^ a b Fishing Prospects at the Wayback Machine (archived September 5, 2008). iran-daily.com (2007-01-14) , ^ "Major Monuments". Iranair.com. Retrieved on 2012-05-20. , ^ Safeguarding Caspian Interests at the Wayback Machine (archived June 3, 2009). iran-daily.com (2006-11-26) , ^ a b The Development of the Oil and Gas Industry in Azerbaijan SOCAR , ^ Back to the Future: Britain, Baku Oil and the Cycle of History SOCAR , ^ Kharin, Nikolai Gavrilovich (2002). Vegetation Degradation in Central Asia Under the Impact of Human Activities . Springer. pp.56a58. ISBN1-4020-0397-8. , ^ The Great Gas Game. Christian Science Monitor (2001-10-25) , ^ Sergei Blagov. Russia Tries to Scuttle Proposed Trans-Caspian Pipeline Eurasianet (2006-03-27) , ^ Russia Seeking To Keep Kazakhstan Happy Eurasianet (2007-12-10) , ^ Tim Webb (2010-12-15). "WikiLeaks cables: BP suffered blowout on Azerbaijan gas platform World news". London: The Guardian . Retrieved 2013-03-26 . , ^ Walt, Vivienne (2010-12-18). "WikiLeaks Reveals BP's 'Other' Offshore Drilling Disaster". TIME . Retrieved 2013-03-26 . , ^ Khoshbakht B. Yusifzade. "8.3 The Status of the Caspian Sea a Dividing Natural Resources Between Five Countries". Azer.com . Retrieved 2010-05-17 . , ^ The great Caspian arms race , Foreign Policy , 2012-06 Check date values in: date= (help) , ^ Russia Gets Way In Caspian Meet at the Wayback Machine (archived January 20, 2008). brtsis.com , ^ "Drainage basing of the Caspian Sea". unece.org. , ^ Caspian Canal Could Boost Kazakh Trade Business Week (2007-07-09) , External links [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Caspian Sea ., Look up caspian sea in Wiktionary, the free dictionary., Names of the Caspian Sea, Caspian Sea Region, Caspian Environment Programme Framework Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Caspian Sea (2003), . , Target: Caspian Sea Oil John Robb, 2004, Dating Caspian sea level changes, Caspian Sea Is Dying, . 
v , t , e , . Islands of the Caspian Sea , . , Ashuradeh, Baku Archipelago, Batkachnyy Island, Blinov Island, Bolshiye Peshnyye Islands, Bolshoy Setnoy Island, Boyuk Zira, Bulla Island, Chechen Island, Chikil, Chilov, Chistoy Banki, Durneva Island, Gil Island, Malyy Zhemchuzhnyy, Morskaya Chapura, Morskoy Biryuchek, Morskoy Ivan-Karaul, Nargin, Nizhniy Oseredok Island, Nordovyy, Ogurja Ada / Ogurchinskiy Island, Osushnoy, Pirallahi Island, Qara Su, Qum Island, Sedmoy, Spirkin Oseredok Island, Svinoy, Tyuleniy Archipelago, Tyuleniy Island, Verkhny Oseredok Island, Vulf, Zenbil, Zhanbay Island, Zyudev Island, . , v , t , e , . Earth's oceans and seas , Arctic Ocean Amundsen Gulf, Barents Sea, Beaufort Sea, Bering Strait, Chukchi Sea, East Siberian Sea, Fram Strait, Greenland Sea, Gulf of Boothia, Kara Sea, Kara Strait, Laptev Sea, Lincoln Sea, Prince Gustav Adolf Sea, Pechora Sea, Wandel Sea, White Sea, . , Atlantic Ocean Adriatic Sea, Aegean Sea, Alboran Sea, Archipelago Sea, Argentine Sea, Baffin Bay, Balearic Sea, Baltic Sea, Bay of Biscay, Bay of Bothnia, Bay of Campeche, Bay of Fundy, Black Sea, Bothnian Sea, Caribbean Sea, Celtic Sea, Davis Strait, Denmark Strait, English Channel, Foxe Basin, Greenland Sea, Gulf of Bothnia, Gulf of Finland, Gulf of Lion, Gulf of Guinea, Gulf of Maine, Gulf of Mexico, Gulf of Saint Lawrence, Gulf of Sidra, Gulf of Venezuela, Hudson Bay, Ionian Sea, Irish Sea, Irminger Sea, James Bay, Labrador Sea, Levantine Sea, Libyan Sea, Ligurian Sea, Marmara Sea, Mediterranean Sea, Myrtoan Sea, North Sea, Norwegian Sea, Sargasso Sea, Sea of Aland, Sea of Azov, Sea of Crete, Sea of the Hebrides, Thracian Sea, Tyrrhenian Sea, Wadden Sea, . , Indian Ocean Andaman Sea, Arabian Sea, Bay of Bengal, Gulf of Tadjoura, Gulf of Aden, Gulf of Aqaba, Gulf of Khambhat, Gulf of Kutch, Gulf of Oman, Gulf of Suez, Laccadive Sea, Mozambique Channel, Persian Gulf, Red Sea, Strait of Malacca, Timor Sea, . , Pacific Ocean Arafura Sea, Bali Sea, Banda Sea, Bering Sea, Bismarck Sea, Bohai Sea, Bohol Sea, Camotes Sea, Celebes Sea, Ceram Sea, Chilean Sea, Coral Sea, East China Sea, Flores Sea, Gulf of Alaska, Gulf of Anadyr, Gulf of California, Gulf of Carpentaria, Gulf of Fonseca, Gulf of Panama, Gulf of Thailand, Gulf of Tonkin, Halmahera Sea, Java Sea, Koro Sea, Mar de Grau, Makassar Strait, Molucca Sea, Moro Gulf, Philippine Sea, Salish Sea, Savu Sea, Sea of Japan, Sea of Okhotsk, Seto Inland Sea, Sibuyan Sea, Solomon Sea, South China Sea, Sulu Sea, Tasman Sea, Visayan Sea, Yellow Sea, . , Southern Ocean Amundsen Sea, Bellingshausen Sea, Cooperation Sea, Cosmonauts Sea, Davis Sea, D'Urville Sea, Great Australian Bight, King Haakon VII Sea, Lazarev Sea, Riiser-Larsen Sea, Mawson Sea, Ross Sea, Scotia Sea, Somov Sea, Weddell Sea, . , Landlocked seas Aral Sea, Caspian Sea , Dead Sea, . , Book A Category , v , t , e , . Lakes of Kazakhstan , Caspian Sea , Aike, Alakol, Aral North, South, . , Balkhash, Bartogay, Chagan, Issyk, Jasybay, Kayindi, Kopa, Kamyslybas, Markakol, Sasykkol, Tengiz, Zaysan, Zerenda, Zhasylkol, . , v , t , e , . Azerbaijantopics , History 
Early Manna, Atropatene, Caucasian Albania, Arran (Caucasus), Shirvan, Sajid dynasty, Sallarid dynasty, Rawwadids, Shaddadids, Kara Koyunlu, Aq Qoyunlu, Safavid dynasty, Russo-Persian War (1804a13), Treaty of Gulistan, Russo-Persian War (1826a28), Treaty of Turkmenchay, . , Modern ArmenianaTatar massacres, March Days, ArmenianaAzerbaijani War, Azerbaijan Democratic Republic, Soviet Azerbaijan, Nagorno-Karabakh War, Black January, Independent Azerbaijan, . , By topic History of the name Azerbaijan, The Land of Fire, . , Geography 
Bodies of water, Caspian Sea , Climate, Environment issues, . , Extreme points, Fauna, Flora, Geology, Mountains, National parks, Orography, Protected areas, State reserves, Wildlife, more... , . , Subdivisions Administrative divisions, Cities, World Heritage Sites, more... , . , Politics 
Government Cabinet, Constitution, Elections, Foreign relations European Union, . , Human rights LGBT, . , Law enforcement, Ministry of National Security, National Assembly, Political parties, Politics, President, Prime Minister, . , Military History, Air and Air Defence Force, Caspian Guard, Internal Troops, Land Forces, National Guard, Navy, Peacekeeping forces, State Border Service, Gabala Radar Station, Ministry of Defense, Ministry of Defence Industry, more... , . , Economy 
Agriculture, Central Bank, Companies, Energy, Manat (currency), Mineral industry, Petroleum industry, Telecommunications, Tourism, Transport, more... , . , Culture 
Architecture, Art, Cinema, Cuisine, Dances, Dress, Folklore, Language, Literature, Media, Music Ashiq, Meykhana, Mugham, . , Novruz (New Year), Public holidays, Rugs, Sport, Theatre, more... , . , Demographics Education, Ethnic minorities, Health, Languages, LGBT history, People list, . , more... , . , Religion Freedom of religion, BahA'A, Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Zoroastrianism, more... , . , Symbols Flag, National anthem, National emblem, . , Outline, Index, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea , Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Caspian_Sea and oldid=631174185" Categories: Caspian Sea, Saline lakes, Lowest points, AzerbaijanaIran border, IranaTurkmenistan border, KazakhstanaTurkmenistan border, KazakhstanaRussia border, AzerbaijanaRussia border, IranaSoviet Union relations, International lakes of Asia, International lakes of Europe, Disputed territories in Asia, Border tripoints, . Hidden categories: CS1 errors: dates, Wikipedia pages move-protected due to vandalism, Coordinates on Wikidata, Articles containing Russian-language text, Articles containing Azerbaijani-language text, Articles containing Kazakh-language text, Articles containing Persian-language text, Articles containing Turkmen-language text, Articles containing Georgian-language text, All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases, Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from May 2011, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from September 2010, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DDNDNDDN, Afrikaans, Alemannisch, aaaa, Anglisc, OUOOOUO, AragonAs, UUUUU, Asturianu, AvaAe'a, DDDN, AzErbaycanca, aaaaa, DDNODNNND, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, aaaaaaa, DNDDDNNDD, Boarisch, Bosanski, Brezhoneg, DNNNDD, CatalA, DODDNDD, AeAtina, Corsu, Cymraeg, Dansk, Deutsch, Dolnoserbski, Eesti, IIIIIIII, EspaAol, Esperanto, EstremeAu, Euskara, UOOOU, Fiji Hindi, FAroyskt, FranAais, Frysk, Gaeilge, Gaelg, GAidhlig, Galego, ee, UUUUU, aaaaaaa, iei, OOOOOOO, aaaaaa, Hornjoserbsce, Hrvatski, Ido, Ilokano, Bahasa Indonesia, Interlingua, DNDD, Aslenska, Italiano, Basa Jawa, aaaaa, aaaaaaa, ODDDOND, Kiswahili, KurdA, DDDDN, DDDDD, Latina, LatvieAu, LAtzebuergesch, LietuviA, Limburgs, LingAla, Lumbaart, Magyar, DDDDDDDNDD, aaaaaa, aaaaa, aaaaaaaaa, UOOU, UOOUOUUU, Bahasa Melayu, Baso Minangkabau, MirandAs, DDDDDD, aaaaaaaaaa, Nederlands, aaaaa aaaa, aeaee, DDNNDDD, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, Occitan, DDND DDNDD, OEzbekcha, aaaaaa, UUOOOU, aaaaaaaaa, PiemontAis, PlattdAAtsch, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, Rumantsch, Runa Simi, DNNDDNNDND, DNNNDDD, DDND NNDD, Seeltersk, Shqip, Sicilianu, Simple English, SlovenAina, SlovenAAina, AlAnski, Soomaaliga, UUOOU, DNDNDD / srpski, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Basa Sunda, Suomi, Svenska, Tagalog, aaaaa, TarandAne, DDNDNND/tatarAa, aaaaaa, aaa, DDODDO, TArkAe, TArkmenAe, DDNDNDNNDD, OOOU, VAneto, Tiang Viat, Winaray, ae, O, ce, Zazaki, ZeAuws, AemaitAAka, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 26 October 2014 at 11:18.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
