
Caucasus Mountains - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Caucasus Mountains 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search For the lunar mountain range, see Montes Caucasus. 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2012) , Caucasus Mountains Aerial view of the Caucasus Mountains , Highest point Peak Mount Elbrus, Elevation 5, 642m (18, 510ft), Coordinates 43A21a18aN 42A26a31aE i / i 43.35500AN 42.44194AE i / 43.35500; 42.44194 , Dimensions Length 1, 100km (680mi), Width 160km (99mi), Geography Topographic map , Countries List Russia, Georgia, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Turkey, Iran, . , Range coordinates 42A30aN 45A00aE i / i 42.5AN 45AE i / 42.5; 45 Coordinates: 42A30aN 45A00aE i / i 42.5AN 45AE i / 42.5; 45 , Satellite image of the Caucasus Mountains 
The Caucasus Mountains [ a ] are a mountain system in Eurasia between the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea in the Caucasus region.
The Caucasus Mountains include the Greater Caucasus Range , which extends from the Caucasian Natural Reserve in the vicinity of Sochi on the northeastern shore of the Black Sea, generally tending east-southeast and reaching nearly to Baku on the Caspian Sea; and the Lesser Caucasus , which runs parallel to the greater range, at a distance averaging about 100km (62mi) south. The Meskheti Range is a part of the Lesser Caucasus system. The Greater and Lesser Caucasus ranges are connected by the Likhi Range, which separates the Kolkhida Lowland from the Kura-Aras Lowland. In the southeast are the Talysh Mountains. The Lesser Caucasus and the Armenian Highland constitute the Transcaucasian Highland. The highest peak in the Caucasus range is Mount Elbrus in the Greater Caucasus, which rises to a height of 5, 642 metres (18, 510ft) above sea level. Mountains near Sochi hosted part of the 2014 Winter Olympics.
Contents
1 Geology , 2 Notable peaks , 3 Climate , 4 Landscape , 5 History , 6 Gallery , 7 Notes , 8 References , 9 Further reading , 10 External links , . 
Geology [ edit ] 
Geologically, the Caucasus Mountains belong to a system that extends from southeastern Europe into Asia. The Greater Caucasus Mountains are mainly composed of Cretaceous and Jurassic rocks with the Paleozoic and Precambrian rocks in the higher regions. Some volcanic formations are found throughout the range. On the other hand, the Lesser Caucasus Mountains are formed predominantly of the Paleogene rocks with a much smaller portion of the Jurassic and Cretaceous rocks. The evolution of the Caucasus began from the Late Triassic to the Late Jurassic during the Cimmerian orogeny at the active margin of the Tethys Ocean while the uplift of the Greater Caucasus is dated to the Miocene during the Alpine orogeny. The Caucasus Mountains formed largely as the result of a tectonic plate collision between the Arabian plate moving northwards with respect to the Eurasian plate. As the Tethys Sea was closed and the Arabian Plate collided with the Iranian Plate and was pushed against it and with the clockwise movement of the Eurasian Plate towards the Iranian Plate and their final collision, the Iranian Plate was pressed against the Eurasian Plate. As this happened, the entire rocks that had been deposited in this basin from the Jurassic to the Miocene were folded to form the Greater Caucasus Mountains. This collision also caused the uplift and the Cenozoic volcanic activity in the Lesser Caucasus Mountains. The entire region is regularly subjected to strong earthquakes from this activity. [ 1 ] While the Greater Caucasus Mountains have a mainly folded sedimentary structure, the Lesser Caucasus Mountains are largely of volcanic origin. [ 2 ] The Javakheti Volcanic Plateau in Georgia and the surrounding volcanic ranges which extend well into central Armenia are some of the youngest features of the region. Only recently was the Caucasus a scene for intense volcanic activity: the Armenian highland was flooded by calc-alkaline basalts and andesites in the Pliocene and the highest summits of the Caucasus, the Elbrus, and the Kazbek, formed as Pleistocene-Pliocene volcanoes. The Kazbek is no longer active, but the Elbrus erupted in postglacial times and fumarole activity is registered near its summit. Contemporary seismic activity is a prominent feature of the region, reflecting active faulting and crustal shortening. Clusters of seismisity occur in Dagestan and in northern Armenia. Many devastating earthquakes have been documented in historical times, including the Spitak earthquake in December 1988 which destroyed the Gyumri-Vanadzor region of Armenia.
Notable peaks [ edit ] 
Europe's highest mountain is usually listed as Mount Elbrus 5, 642m (18, 510ft), in the Caucasus Mountains, though in a few sources, Mont Blanc 4, 810m (15, 780ft), in the Alps is listed. The Caucasus Mountains are generally considered as in both Europe and Asia. In fact, the main Greater Caucasus range is the most common definition for the continental divide. For a detailed history of the Asia-Europe definition, see Boundaries between continents. While clearly not a scientific definition, most mountain climbers consider Mt. Elbrus to be the highest mountain in Europe. [ 3 ] [ 4 ] 
The table below lists some of the highest peaks of the Caucasus. With the exception of Shkhara, the heights are taken from Soviet 1:50, 000 mapping. There are higher and more prominent, but nameless, peaks than some of the peaks included below.
Peak name Elevation (m) Prominence (m) Country Elbrus, 5, 641, 4, 741, Russia, Dykh-Tau, 5, 205, 2, 002, Russia, Shkhara, 5, 201, 1, 365, Georgia/Russia, Koshtan-Tau, 5, 152, 822, Russia, Janga (Jangi-Tau), 5, 059, 300, Georgia/Russia, Kazbek, 5, 047, 2, 353, Georgia/Russia, Pushkin, 5, 033, 110, Georgia/Russia, Katyn-Tau, 4, 979, 240, Georgia/Russia, Gistola, 4, 860, Georgia, Shota Rustaveli, 4, 860, c.50, Georgia/Russia, Tetnuldi, 4, 858, 672, Georgia, Dzhimara, 4, 780, Georgia/Russia, Ushba, 4, 710, 1, 143, Georgia, Ailama, 4, 547, 1, 067, Georgia, Tebulos, 4, 499, Georgia/Russia, Mount BazardAzA, 4, 466, Azerbaijan/Russia, Tepli, 4, 431, Russia, Diklo, 4, 285, 843, Georgia, Mount Shahdagh, 4, 243, Azerbaijan, Aragats, 4, 090, 2, 143, Armenia, Climate [ edit ] 
The climate of the Caucasus varies both vertically (according to elevation) and horizontally (by latitude and location). Temperature generally decreases as elevation rises. Average annual temperature in Sukhumi, Abkhazia at sea level is 15AC (59AF) while on the slopes of Mt.Kazbek at an elevation of 3, 700 metres (12, 100ft), average annual temperature falls toa6.1AC (21.0AF). The northern slopes of the Greater Caucasus Mountain Range are 3A C (5.4A F) colder than the southern slopes. The highlands of the Lesser Caucasus Mountains in Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Georgia are marked by sharp temperature contrasts between the summer and winter months due to a more continental climate.
Precipitation increases from east to west in most areas. Elevation plays an important role in the Caucasus and mountains generally receive higher amounts of precipitation than low-lying areas. The northeastern regions (Dagestan) and the southern portions of the Lesser Caucasus Mountains are the driest. The absolute minimum annual precipitation is 250mm (9.84in) in the northeastern Caspian Depression. Western parts of the Caucasus Mountains are marked by high amounts of precipitation. The southern slopes of the Greater Caucasus Mountain Range receive higher amounts of precipitation than the northern slopes. Annual precipitation in the Western Caucasus ranges from 1, 000a4, 000mm (39.37a157.48in) while in the Eastern and Northern Caucasus (Chechnya, Ingushetia, Kabardino-Balkaria, Ossetia, Kakheti, Kartli, etc.) precipitation ranges from 600a1, 800mm (23.62a70.87in). The absolute maximum annual precipitation is 4, 100mm (161.42in) around the Mt. Mtirala area which lies on the Meskheti Range in Ajaria. The precipitation of the Lesser Caucasus Mountain Range (Southern Georgia, Armenia, western Azerbaijan), not including the Meskheti Range, varies from 300-800mm (31.50in) annually.
The Caucasus Mountains are known for the high amount of snowfall, although many regions which are not located along the windward slopes do not receive nearly as much snow. This is especially true for the Lesser Caucasus Mountains which are somewhat isolated from the moist influences coming in from the Black Sea and receive considerably less precipitation (in the form of snow) than the Greater Caucasus Mountains. The average winter snow cover of the Lesser Caucasus Mountains ranges from 10a30cm (3.94a11.81in). The Greater Caucasus Mountains (especially the southwestern slopes) are marked by heavy snowfall. Avalanches are common from November to April.
Snow cover in several regions (Svaneti and northern Abkhazia) may reach 5 metres (16ft). The Mt. Achishkho region, which is the snowiest place in the Caucasus, often records snow depths of 7m (23ft).
Landscape [ edit ] 
The Caucasus Mountains have a varied landscape which mainly changes according to elevation and distance from large bodies of water. The region contains biomes ranging from subtropical lowland marshes and forests to glaciers (Western and Central Caucasus), and highland semideserts, steppes, and alpine meadows in the south (mainly in Armenia and Azerbaijan).
The northern slopes of the Greater Caucasus Mountains are covered by oak, hornbeam, maple, and ash forests at lower elevations while birch and pine forests take over at higher elevations. Some of the lowest areas of the region are covered by steppes and grasslands. The slopes of the Northwestern Greater Caucasus (Kabardino-Balkaria, Cherkessia, etc.) also contain spruce and fir forests. The alpine zone replaces the forest at around 2, 000 metres (6, 600ft) above sea level. The permafrost/glacier line generally starts around 2, 800a3, 000 metres (9, 200a9, 800ft). The southeastern slopes of the Greater Caucasus Mountains are covered by beech, oak, maple, hornbeam, and ash forests. Beech forests tend to dominate in higher locations. The southwestern slopes of the Greater Caucasus are covered by Colchian forests (oak, buxus, beech, chestnut, hornbeam, elm) at lower elevations with coniferous and mixed forests (spruce, fir and beech) taking over at higher elevations. The alpine zone on the southern slopes may extend up to 2, 800 metres (9, 200ft) above sea level while the glacier/snow line starts at 3, 000a3, 500 metres (9, 800a11, 500ft).
The northern and western slopes of the Lesser Caucasus Mountains are characterized both by Colchian and other deciduous forests at lower elevations while mixed and coniferous forests (mainly spruce and fir) dominate at higher elevations. Beech forests are also common at higher elevations. The southern slopes of the Lesser Caucasus Mountains are largely covered by grasslands and steppes up to an elevation of 2, 500 metres (8, 200ft). The highest areas of the region contain alpine grasslands as well. Volcanic and other rock formations are common throughout the region. The volcanic zone extends over a large area from southern Georgia into Armenia and southwestern Azerbaijan. Some of the prominent peaks of the region include Mt. Aragats, Didi Abuli, Samsari, and others. The area is characterized by volcanic plateaus, lava flows, volcanic lakes, volcanic cones and other features. The Lesser Caucasus Mountains lack the type of glaciers and glacial features that are common on the Greater Caucasus Mountain Range.
History [ edit ] 
Crossing the Caucasus Mountain range was an important section of the northern arm of the Silk Route. There was one pass on the southeast end in Derbent (crossing the Great Wall of Gorgan (also known as Alexander the Great's Wall)), and multiple passes throughout the range: Jvari Pass at 2379m and above the Darial Gorge on the Georgian Military Road, Mamison Pass on the Ossetian Military Road at 2911m, and Roki Tunnel at 2310m.
Gallery [ edit ] 
Mt Elbrus viewed from the south
, Komito Mountain in Chechnya
, Caucasus Mountains in Svaneti, Georgia
, Murov mountain in Azerbaijan
, Chaukhi mountain in Khevi, Georgia
, A gorge in Dagestan, Russia
, Twin-peaked Ushba in Georgia
, . 
Notes [ edit ] 
^ Native names include: Georgian: aaaaaaaaaa ; Armenian: OOOOOOOOO OOOOOO ; Azerbaijani: Qafqaz daAlarA ; Russian: DDDDDDNDDD DDNN ; Turkish: Kafkas DaAlarA ) and Persian: UUU UOU UUUOO a. , References [ edit ] 
, Wikisource has the text of the 1911 EncyclopAdia Britannica article Caucasus ., Parts of this article are from the NASA Earth Observatory; [1] , . ^ Reilinger; McClusky; Oral; King; Toksoz; Barka; Kinik; Lenk; Sanli (Jan 1997). "Global Positioning System measurements of present-day crustal movements in the Arabia-Africa-Eurasia plate collision zone". Journal of Geophysical Research 102 (B5): 9983a9999. doi:10.1029/96JB03736/abstract (inactive 2014-06-30). , ^ Philip, H.; Cisternas, A.; Gvishiani, A.; Gorshkov, A. (1 April 1989). "The Caucasus". Tectnophysics 161 (1a2): 1a21. doi:10.1016/0040-1951(89)90297-7. , ^ Peakware World Mountain Encyclopedia. Peakware.com. Retrieved on 2014-05-15. , ^ "Caucasus Mountains". Peakbagger.com. , Further reading [ edit ] 
Small Nations and Great Powers: A Study of Ethnopolitical Conflict in the Caucasus By Svante E. Cornell, . 
External links [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Caucasus mountains ., NASA Earth Observatory images of the Caucasus: [2], "Highest Peaks of the Caucasus from peakbagger.com". Peakbagger.com. , List of the most prominent mountains in the Caucasus, . 
v , t , e , . The Mountain Ranges of the Iranian Plateau and their Political Geography , Alborz Mountains Iran, Turkmenistan, Azerbaijan, . , Caucasus Mountains Daghestan, Ossetia, Chechenya, Georgia, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Russia, . , Hindu Kush Mountains Afghanistan, Pakistan, . , Sulaiman Mountains Pakistan, Afghanistan, . , Taurus Mountains Turkey, Syria, . , Zagros Mountains Turkey, Iraq, Iran, Armenia, . , v , t , e , . Geography topics , History, Index/Outline, Portal, . , Branches 
Human Behavioral, Cultural, Demography, Development, Economic, Feminist, Health, Historical, Political, Regional, Urban, . , Physical Biogeography, Climatology, Coastal, Geodesy, Geomorphology, Glaciology, Hydrology, Landscape ecology, Limnology, Oceanography, Palaeogeography, Pedology, Quaternary science, . , Integrative Environmental geography, . , Techniques and tools Cartography, Geographic Information Systems (GIS), Geostatistics, Global Positioning System (GPS), Remote sensing, Spatial analysis, Spatial science, Qualitative research, . , Societies American Geographical Society, Association of American Geographers, European Geography Association, Geographical Association, Hong Kong Geographical Association, International Geographical Union, Lisbon Geographic Society, National Geographic Society, Royal Canadian Geographical Society, Royal Geographical Society, Royal Scottish Geographical Society, Russian Geographical Society, Saudi Geographical Society, SociAtA de GAographie, Society of Woman Geographers, . , Geographers Ptolemy, Al-Masudi, Gerardus Mercator, Carl Ritter, Alexander Von Humboldt, Alfred Russel Wallace, Richard Chorley, . , Geography Departments University of Cambridge, University of Edinburgh, University of Leeds, Moscow State University, Stockholm University, University of Sydney, Texas A and M College, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains , North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Caucasus_Mountains and oldid=632644524" Categories: Caucasus Mountains, Caucasus, Mountain ranges of the Caucasus, Geography of the Caucasus, Eastern Europe, Western Asia, Mountain ranges of Asia, Mountain ranges of Europe, Mountain ranges of Armenia, Mountain ranges of Azerbaijan, Mountain ranges of Georgia (country), Mountain ranges of Iran, Mountain ranges of Russia, Mountain ranges of Turkey, Geology of the Caucasus, Landforms of the Caucasus, Geography of Western Asia, Physiographic provinces, . Hidden categories: Articles containing Georgian-language text, Articles containing Armenian-language text, Articles containing Azerbaijani-language text, Articles containing Russian-language text, Articles containing Turkish-language text, Articles containing Persian-language text, Pages with DOIs inactive since 2014, Articles needing additional references from September 2012, All articles needing additional references, Coordinates on Wikidata, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
Afrikaans, OUOOOUO, AvaAe'a, DDDN, AzErbaycanca, DNDDDNNDD, Boarisch, Bosanski, Brezhoneg, CatalA, AeAtina, Cymraeg, Dansk, Deutsch, Dolnoserbski, Eesti, IIIIIIII, EspaAol, Esperanto, Euskara, UOOOU, FAroyskt, FranAais, Galego, iei, aaaaaa, Hornjoserbsce, Hrvatski, Bahasa Indonesia, Aslenska, Italiano, DNDNDNDD-DDDDNDN, aaaaaaa, KurdA, Latina, LatvieAu, LAtzebuergesch, LietuviA, Magyar, DDDDDDDNDD, aaaaa, aaaaaaaaa, Bahasa Melayu, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, aaaaaa, UUOOOU, PlattdAAtsch, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, Shqip, Simple English, SlovenAAina, DNDNDD / srpski, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Suomi, Svenska, Tagalog, aaaaa, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, OOOU, OUUOUOUU / Uyghurche, Tiang Viat, ce, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 6 November 2014 at 03:06.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
