
Central Bank of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Central Bank of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia AA(Redirected from Central Bank of the Russian Federation) Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article is outdated . Please update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. (April 2014) , Central Bank of Russia
DDDNNDDNDND DDDD DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD
Tsentral'nyj bank Rossijskoj Federatsii 
Central Bank of Russia logo, Headquarters, Headquarters Neglinnaya 12, Moscow, Russia, Established 1860 (historic) , 1990 (modern) , Chairman Elvira Nabiullina, Centralbankof The Russian Federation, Currency Russian ruble
RUB(ISO 4217), Reserves $521bn in total Stat $367, 500mil in foreign currency
a47, 5n Euro
a41, 5n US Dollar
a9, 7n Pound Sterling
a1, 3 in Yens, $17, 670mil in gold, $6, 907mil in SDRs, $15, 597bn in other assets, . , Bank rate 8.25td> Website Official website, The Bank of Russia (Russian: DDDD DDNNDID ; IPA: [bank rEEsEijE] ) or the Central Bank of The Russian Federation (Russian: DDDNNDIDNDND DDDD DDNNDIDNDDD DDDDNDINDD ; IPA: [tIsEnEtralEnEj bank rEEsEijskEj fEEdEEEratIsEjE] ) is the central bank of the Russian Federation. Its functions are described in the Russian constitution (Article 75) and in the special Federal Law. The Bank of Greatest Russia was founded on July 13, 1990, but traced its history to the State Bank of the Russian Empire.
Under Russian law, half of the Central Bank's profit has to be channeled into the government's federal budget. The Central Bank of Russia unlike Belarus National Bank, Ukraine or Kazakhstan is member of BIS. [ 1 ] 
Contents
1 Role and duties , 2 Ownership of commercial bank , 3 Chairmen of the State Bank of Russia , 4 Gallery , 5 See also , 6 References , 7 Further reading , 8 External links , . 
Role and duties [ edit ] 
According to the constitution, the Bank of Russia is an independent entity, with the primary responsibility of protecting the stability of the national currency, the ruble. It also holds the exclusive right to issue ruble banknotes and coins through the Goznak mint. The Central Bank issues commemorative coins made of precious and non precious metals as well as investment ones made of precious metals, which are distributed inside and outside the country. [ 2 ] In honor of its 150th anniversary in 2010 it issued a 5-kilo commemorative gold coin featuring Alexander II . [ 3 ] The coins of the Bank of Russia are struck in the Moscow and St. Petersburg mints. The Bank's headquarters are on Neglinnaya Street in Moscow.
The Bank of Russia is the main regulator of the banking industry. It is responsible for issuing banking licenses and setting rules of banking operations and accounting standards. The bank serves as a lender of last resort for credit organizations.
Ownership of commercial bank [ edit ] 
The Bank of Russia owns a 57.58take in Sberbank, [ 4 ] which creates potential conflicts of interest both in the competitive landscape as well as in the regulatory policy of the Russian banking sector.
Chairmen of the State Bank of Russia [ edit ] 
Name Year Georgy Matyukhin, 1990a1992, Viktor Gerashchenko, 1992a1994, Tatiana Paramonova, 1994a1995, Alexander Khandruyev, November 8 to 22, 1995, Sergei Dubinin, 1995a1998, Viktor Gerashchenko, 1998a2002, Sergei Ignatyev, 2002a2013, Elvira Nabiullina, 2013apresent, Gallery [ edit ] 
, Central Bank of Russia car
, . 
See also [ edit ] 
Andrey Kozlov, Banking in Russia, Economy of Russia, Goznak, Russian ruble, Payment system, Real-time gross settlement, Bank for International Settlements, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ "Inside the Risky Bets of Central Banks", The Wall-Street Journal. Dec. 12, 2012 , ^ Commemorative and Investment Coins of the Bank of Russia , ^ "Russia to issue 5 kg gold coin", The Financial Express. May 19, 2010. Accessed May 19, 2010. , ^ Sberbank shareholders, official website: http://www.sbrf.ru/moscow/ru/investor_relations/information_for_shareholders/share_capital_structure/ , Further reading [ edit ] 
Barenboim, Peter (2001). "Constitutional Economics and the Bank of Russia". Fordham Journal of Corporate and Financial Law 7 (1): 160. , . 
External links [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Central Bank of Russia ., (Russian) (English) Bank of Russia, Federal law "On the Central Bank of the Russian Federation (Bank of Russia)", Interview to CIO magazine: Bank of Russia's deputy chairman Mihail Senatorov, Historical Scandals from the Dean Peter Krogh Foreign Affairs Digital Archives, . 
v , t , e , . Economy of Russia , History Soviet Union, Privatization, 1998 financial crisis, Monetary reforms in Russia (1991, 1993, 1998), National Priority Projects, National champions, Stabilization Fund, Great Recession in Russia, Medvedev modernisation programme, Timeline of largest projects, . , Natural resources Timber, Mining, Aluminium, Oil reserves, Energy, Nuclear power, Geothermal power, Renewable energy, . , Agriculture Fishery, Hunting, Forestry, . , Industry Engineering, (Aircraft, Automotive, Tractor, timber and agricultural machinery, Defence, Shipbuilding, Space industry, Rolling stock manufacturers), Metallurgy, (Pipe Industry), Petroleum industry, Chemical industry, Science and technology, Food industry, . , Infrastructure Telecommunications, Transport Rail, Vehicle registration plates, . , . , Services Grocery retailing, Tourism, Gambling, Real estate, . , Finance Russian ruble, Account Chamber, Banking (Banks , Central Bank of Russia ) , Federal budget, Moscow Exchange, National Pension Fund, Social Insurance Fund, Tax Code, Billionaires, . , Regional economies Natural resources of Primorsky Krai, Federal subjects by GRP, Federal subjects by GDP per capita, Federal subjects by HDI, Federal subjects by unemployment rate, . , Economic regions Central, Ural, North Caucasus, Volga, West Siberian, East Siberian, Volga-Vyatka, Northwestern, Central Black Earth, Far Eastern, Northern, . , Other Companies, Trade unions, . , Category, Commons, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank , Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Central banks , Global , Global Bank for International Settlements, Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Financial Stability Board, . , By continent , Africa Bank of Central African States, Central Bank of West African States, Bank of Algeria, Central Bank of Angola, Bank of Botswana, Bank of the Republic of Burundi, Bank of Cape Verde, Central Bank of the Comoros, Central Bank of the Congo, Central Bank of Djibouti, Central Bank of Egypt, Bank of Eritrea, National Bank of Ethiopia, Central Bank of The Gambia, Bank of Ghana, Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea, Central Bank of Kenya, Central Bank of Lesotho, Central Bank of Liberia, Central Bank of Libya, Bank Al-Maghrib, Reserve Bank of Malawi, Bank of Mauritius, Bank of Mozambique, Bank of Namibia, Central Bank of Nigeria, Bank of Somaliland , South African Reserve Bank, Bank of South Sudan, Bank of Sudan, Central Bank of Swaziland, Bank of Tanzania, Central Bank of Tunisia, Bank of Uganda, Bank of Zambia, Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe, . , Americas Central Bank of Argentina, Central Bank of Aruba, Central Bank of The Bahamas, Central Bank of Barbados, Bermuda Monetary Authority, Central Bank of Brazil, Bank of Canada, Central Bank of Chile, Bank of the Republic (Colombia), Central Bank of Cuba, Central Bank of CuraAao and Sint Maarten, Eastern Caribbean Central Bank, Cayman Islands Monetary Authority , Central Bank of Ecuador, Bank of the Republic of Haiti, Central Bank of Honduras, Bank of Jamaica, Bank of Mexico, Central Bank of Nicaragua, Central Reserve Bank of Peru, Central Bank of Suriname, Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago, Federal Reserve System (United States), Central Bank of Venezuela, . , Asia Da Afghanistan Bank, Central Bank of Bahrain, Bangladesh Bank, Royal Monetary Authority of Bhutan, Brunei Currency and Monetary Board, National Bank of Cambodia, People's Bank of China, Hong Kong Monetary Authority , Reserve Bank of India, Bank Indonesia, Central Bank of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Central Bank of Iraq, Bank of Israel, Bank of Japan, Central Bank of Jordan, National Bank of Kazakhstan, National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic, Bank of Korea, Central Bank of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Central Bank of Kuwait, Banque du Liban, Monetary Authority of Macao , Bank Negara Malaysia, Maldives Monetary Authority, Bank of Mongolia, Central Bank of Myanmar, Nepal Rastra Bank, Central Bank of Oman, State Bank of Pakistan, Palestine Monetary Authority , Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, Qatar Central Bank, Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency, Monetary Authority of Singapore, Central Bank of Sri Lanka, Central Bank of Syria, Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan), Bank of Thailand, Central Bank of Turkmenistan, Central Bank of the United Arab Emirates, Central Bank of Uzbekistan, State Bank of Vietnam, Central Bank of Yemen, . , Europe European Central Bank (Eurosystem), National Bank of the Republic of Abkhazia , Bank of Albania, Central Bank of Armenia, National Bank of Austria, Central Bank of Azerbaijan, National Bank of the Republic of Belarus, National Bank of Belgium, Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgarian National Bank, Croatian National Bank, Central Bank of Cyprus, Czech National Bank, Danmarks Nationalbank, Deutsche Bundesbank, Bank of England, Bank of Estonia, Bank of Finland, Banque de France, National Bank of Georgia, Bank of Greece, Hungarian National Bank, Central Bank of Iceland, Central Bank of Ireland, Banca d'Italia, Central Bank of Kosovo , National Bank of Latvia, Bank of Lithuania, Central Bank of Luxembourg, National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia, Central Bank of Malta, National Bank of Moldova, Central Bank of Montenegro, De Nederlandsche Bank, Norges Bank, Central Bank of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus , National Bank of Poland, Banco de Portugal, National Bank of Romania, Central Bank of Russia , Banka Slovenije (Slovenia), National Bank of Serbia, Bank of Spain, NArodnA banka Slovenska (Slovakia), Sveriges Riksbank, Swiss National Bank, Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey, National Bank of Ukraine, . , Oceania Reserve Bank of Australia, Reserve Bank of Fiji, Reserve Bank of New Zealand, Bank of Papua New Guinea, Central Bank of Samoa, Central Bank of Solomon Islands, National Reserve Bank of Tonga, . , Policies and implementation , Policies Capital requirement, Contractionary monetary policy, Expansionary monetary policy, Basel II, Basel III, Basel 4, . , Implementation Capital control, Discount rate, Interest rates, Money creation, Open market operation, Sovereign wealth fund, . , Bretton Woods system , International Monetary Fund , World Bank Group International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes, International Development Association, International Finance Corporation, Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, . , . , Lists , List of central banks, Central banks and currencies of Africa, Central banks and currencies of the Caribbean, Central banks and currencies of Central America and South America, . , Names in italics indicate non-sovereign (dependent) territories, former countries, or states with limited recognition , Coordinates: 55A45a47aN 37A37a17aE i / i 55.76306AN 37.62139AE i / 55.76306; 37.62139 
Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Central_Bank_of_Russia and oldid=625391412" Categories: Banks of Russia, Central banks, Economy of Russia, Government of Russia, Numismatic coins of Russia, Banks established in 1990, 1990 establishments in Russia, . Hidden categories: Wikipedia articles in need of updating from April 2014, All Wikipedia articles in need of updating, Articles containing Russian-language text, Commons category template with no category set, Commons category with page title same as on Wikidata, Articles with Russian-language external links, Coordinates on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
CatalA, DODDNDD, Deutsch, EspaAol, FranAais, Bahasa Indonesia, Italiano, DDDDDDDNDD, aeaee, Polski, DNNNDDD, Simple English, Suomi, . Edit links This page was last modified on 13 September 2014 at 16:20.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
