
Speaker (politics) - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Speaker (politics) 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia AA(Redirected from Speaker (parliament)) Jump to: navigation, search 
The term speaker is a title often given to the presiding officer (chair) of a deliberative assembly, especially a legislative body. The speaker's official role is to moderate debate, make rulings on procedure, announce the results of votes, and the like. The speaker decides who may speak and has the powers to discipline members who break the procedures of the house. The speaker often also represents the body in person, as the voice of the body in ceremonial and some other situations. The title was first recorded in 1377 to describe the role of Thomas de Hungerford in the Parliament of England. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] By convention, Speakers are normally addressed in Parliament as Mister Speaker, if a man, or Madam Speaker, if a woman. In most other cultures other styles are used, mainly equivalents of English "chairman" or "president". In Canadian French, the Speaker of the House of Commons or of a legislature is referred to as PrAsident .
Many bodies also have a speaker pro tempore or deputy speaker, designated to fill in when the speaker is not available.
Contents
1 Similar posts , 2 List of current Speakers , 3 See also , 4 Literature , 5 References , . 
Similar posts [ edit ] 
Parliament of Albania Marshal's chair in the Sejm, lower chamber of the Polish Parliament 
The presiding officer for an upper house of a bicameral legislature usually has a different title, although substantially the same duties.
When the upper house is called a senate, the equivalent title is often President of the Senate. Australia, Chile, the United States and many other countries have upper houses with presiding officers titled "president". In several American republics, the vice president of the country serves as the president of the upper house.
This pattern is not universal, however. Some upper houses, including those of Canada and several U.S. states (including Tennessee), have a speaker.
In the United Kingdom, the presiding officer of the House of Lords was until recently the Lord Chancellor, who was also a member of the government (a cabinet member) and the head of the judicial branch. The Lord Chancellor did not have the same authority to discipline members of the Lords that the speaker of the Commons has in that house. (On 4 July 2006 the office was reformed, and the Baroness Hayman took the woolsack as the first Lord Speaker.) (The office of Lord Chancellor remains, though with a modified role and duties.)
The Presiding Officer of the National Assembly for Wales, Presiding Officer of the Scottish Parliament and Presiding Officer of the Northern Ireland Assembly fulfil the same role as the speaker.
List of current Speakers [ edit ] 
, The examples and perspective in this section may not represent a worldwide view of the subject . Please improve this article and discuss the issue on the talk page. (February 2012) , Country Legislature (or legislative chamber) Title Incumbent Albania , Parliament of Albania, Speaker, Ilir Meta, Armenia , National Assembly of Armenia, Speaker, Hovik Abrahamyan, Australia , Australian House of Representatives, Speaker, Bronwyn Bishop, Austria , National Council, President of the National Council, Doris Bures, Bangladesh , Bangladesh Jatiyo Sangshad, Speaker, Shirin Sharmin Chaudhury [ 3 ] , Botswana , National Assembly of Botswana, Speaker, Margaret Nasha, Bulgaria , National Assembly of Bulgaria, Chairperson, Mihail Mikov, Cambodia , National Assembly of Cambodia, President, Heng Samrin, Canada , AParliament of Canada, Senate of Canada, Speaker ( PrAsident ), NoAl Kinsella, AParliament of Canada, House of Commons of Canada, Speaker ( PrAsident ), Andrew Scheer, AAlberta, Legislative Assembly of Alberta, Speaker, Gene Zwozdesky, ABritish Columbia, Legislative Assembly of British Columbia, Speaker, Linda Reid, AManitoba, Legislative Assembly of Manitoba, Speaker, Daryl Reid, ANew Brunswick, Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick, Speaker, Dale Graham, ANewfoundland and Labrador, House of Assembly of Newfoundland and Labrador, Speaker, Roger Fitzgerald, ANorthwest Territories, Legislative Assembly of Northwest Territories, Speaker, Paul Delorey, ANova Scotia, Nova Scotia House of Assembly, Speaker, Gordie Gosse, ANunavut, Legislative Assembly of Nunavut, Speaker, James Arreak, AOntario, Legislative Assembly of Ontario, Speaker, Dave Levac, APrince Edward Island, Legislative Assembly of Prince Edward Island, Speaker, Kathleen M. Casey, ASaskatchewan, Legislative Assembly of Saskatchewan, Speaker, Dan D'Autremont, AQuebec, Quebec National Assembly, President, Jacques Chagnon, AYukon, Yukon Legislative Assembly, Speaker, Ted Staffen, China , National People's Congress, Chairman of the Standing Committee, Zhang Dejiang, AHong Kong, Legislative Council of Hong Kong, President, Jasper Tsang, AMacau, Legislative Assembly of Macau, President (presidente), Lau Cheok Va, Croatia , Croatian Parliament (Sabor) , President, Josip Leko, Czech Republic , Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, Chairman, Jan HamAAek, Denmark , Parliament of Denmark (Folketinget), Speaker, Mogens Lykketoft, Egypt , People's Assembly, Speaker, Saad El-Katatny, Estonia , Riigikogu, Speaker, Ene Ergma, Finland , Parliament of Finland (eduskunta/riksdagen), Speaker, Eero HeinAluoma, France , National Assembly (AssemblAe Nationale), President, Claude Bartolone, Ghana , Parliament of Ghana, Speaker, Mrs. Justice Joyce Adeline Bamford-Addo, Germany , Bundestag, President, Norbert Lammert, Greece , Vouli, Speaker, Evangelos Meimarakis, Hungary , National Assembly of Hungary (Magyar KAztArsasAg OrszAggyAlAse), Speaker, LAszlA KAvAr, Iceland , Parliament of Iceland, Speaker, Einar K. GuAfinnsson, India , Lok Sabha, Speaker, Sumitra Mahajan, Indonesia , People's Representative Council (Dewan Perwakilan Rakyat), Chairman, Setya Novanto, Ireland , DAil Aireann, Ceann Comhairle, SeAn Barrett, Iran , Majlis of Iran, Speaker/Chairman [OOUO], Ali Larijani, Israel , Knesset, Speaker, Yuli-Yoel Edelstein, Italy , Italian Chamber of Deputies, President, Laura Boldrini, Japan , House of Representatives of Japan, Speaker, Bunmei Ibuki, Kenya , Parliament of Kenya, Speaker, Kenneth Marende, Kosovo , Assembly of Kosovo, Chairman, Jakup Krasniqi, Latvia , Saeima, Speaker, Solvita AboltiAa, Lebanon , Parliament of Lebanon, Speaker, Nabih Berri, Liechtenstein , Landtag of Liechtenstein, President, Albert Frick, Lithuania , Seimas, Speaker, Irena DegutienA, Libya , General National Congress, Speaker, Mohamed Yousef el-Magariaf, Macedonia , Assembly of the Republic of Macedonia, Speaker, Trajko Veljanovski, Malaysia , House of Representatives of Malaysia (Dewan Rakyat), Speaker, Tan Sri Pandikar Amin Mulia, Malta , House of Representatives of Malta, Speaker, Angelo Farrugia, Mexico , Chamber of Deputies (CAmara de Diputados), President, Ruth Zavaleta Salgado, Moldova , Parliament, President, Marian Lupu, Montenegro , Assembly of Montenegro, President, Ranko KrivokapiA, Netherlands , House of Representatives of the Netherlands, President, Anouchka van Miltenburg, New Zealand , House of Representatives, Speaker, David Carter, Nigeria , National Assembly of Nigeria, Speaker, Aminu Tambuwal, North Korea , Supreme People's Assembly, Chairman of the Presidium, Kim Yong-nam, Pakistan , National Assembly of Pakistan, Speaker, Sardar Ayaz Sadiq, Philippines , House of Representatives of the Philippines, Speaker, Feliciano Belmonte, Poland , Sejm of the Republic of Poland, Marshal, RadosAaw Sikorski, Portugal , Assembly of the Republic, President, Maria da AssunAAo Esteves, Romania , Chamber of Deputies of Romania, President, Valeriu Zgonea, Russia , State Duma, Chairman, Sergey Naryshkin, Serbia , National Assembly of Serbia, President, NebojAa StefanoviA, Singapore , Parliament of Singapore, Speaker, Halimah Yacob, Slovakia , National Council of the Slovak Republic, Speaker, Pavol PaAka, Solomon Islands , National Parliament of Solomon Islands, Speaker, Sir Peter Kenilorea, South Africa , National Assembly of South Africa, Speaker, Max Sisulu, South Korea , National Assembly of South Korea, Speaker, Kang Chang hee, South Sudan , National Legislative Assembly of South Sudan, Speaker, James Wani Igga, Spain , Congress of Deputies (Congreso de los Diputados), President, JesAs Posada Moreno, Sri Lanka , Parliament of Sri Lanka, Speaker, Chamal Rajapaksa, Suriname , National Assembly of Suriname (De Nationale Assemblee), Chairman, Jennifer Simons, Sweden , Riksdag, Speaker, Urban Ahlin, Taiwan , Legislative Yuan, President, Wang Jin-pyng, Thailand , House of Representatives of Thailand, President, Somsak Kiatsuranont, Ukraine , Verkhovna Rada, Chairman, Oleksandr Turchynov, United Kingdom , AParliament of the United Kingdom, House of Lords of the United Kingdom, Lord Speaker, Baroness D'Souza, AParliament of the United Kingdom, House of Commons of the United Kingdom, Speaker, John Bercow, A Isle of Man, House of Keys, Speaker, Steve Rodan, A Northern Ireland, Northern Ireland Assembly, Speaker, William Hay, A Scotland, Scottish Parliament, Presiding Officer, Tricia Marwick, A Wales, National Assembly for Wales, Presiding Officer, Rosemary Butler, United States , United States House of Representatives, Speaker, John Boehner, Uruguay , Chamber of Deputies of Uruguay, President, Ivonne Passada, Vanuatu , Parliament of Vanuatu, Speaker, George Andre Wells [ 4 ] , Vietnam , National Assembly of Vietnam, Chairman, Nguyan Sinh HAng, Zimbabwe , House of Assembly of Zimbabwe, Speaker, Jacob Mudenda, See also [ edit ] 
Generic President of Congress (disambiguation), President of the Legislative Assembly (disambiguation), President of the National Assembly (disambiguation), President of the Senate, Speaker of the House of Assembly (disambiguation), Speaker of the House of Commons (disambiguation), Speaker of the House of Representatives (disambiguation), Speaker of the Legislative Assembly (disambiguation), Speaker of the National Assembly (disambiguation), Speaker of the Senate, . Specific Speaker of the Canadian Senate, Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario, Speaker of the Palestinian Legislative Council, Cathaoirleach (Speaker of the Irish Senate), Lord Speaker (Speaker of the United Kingdom House of Lords), Marshal of the Senate, Poland, President of the European Parliament, President of the National Assembly of Quebec, President of the Senate of Romania, Presiding Officer of the United States Senate, Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, . Historic Lawspeaker, . 
Literature [ edit ] 
Bergougnous, Georges. Presiding Officers of National Parliamentary Assemblies: A World Comparative Study. Trans. Jennifer Lorenzi. Geneva: Inter-Parliamentary Union, 1997. ISBN 92-9142-028-X., . 
References [ edit ] 
^ Journal of the House of Commons: January 1559 , ^ Lee Vol 28, pp. 257, 258. , ^ "Shirin to become first woman Speaker". bdnews24.com. 29 April 2013 . Retrieved 29 April 2013 . , ^ "01 September confirmed as date for Vanuatu Presidential Election". Islands Business . 2009-09-02 . Retrieved 2009-08-20 . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Speaker_(politics) and oldid=628909005" Categories: Chairs of lower houses, Legislative speakers, Parliamentary titles, Legislatures, Government occupations, Positions of authority, Legal professions, . Hidden categories: Articles with limited geographic scope from February 2012, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
Afrikaans, aaaaa, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, Deutsch, Eesti, Esperanto, UOOOU, iei, Bahasa Indonesia, Italiano, aaaaa, Kiswahili, aaaaaa, aeaee, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, Simple English, Svenska, DDNDNDNNDD, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 9 October 2014 at 10:45.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
