
Politics of China - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of China 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search For other uses, see Politics of China (disambiguation). 
China , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
China , Leadership Leadership generations, Collective leadership Paramount leader , . 
Current leadership 
Xi-Li Administration, National leaders President (list): Xi Jinping Vice President (list): Li Yuanchao , Provincial leaders, . , Communist Party History, Organization, . National Party Congress (18th) Central Committee (18th) General Secretary (list) Xi Jinping Central Politburo (18th) Standing Committee(list) , Central Secretariat Executive: Liu Yunshan , Central Military Commission Chairman: Xi Jinping , National Security Commission Chairman: Xi Jinping , . , Central Commission for Discipline Inspection Secretary: Wang Qishan , . , . , Ideology MarxismaLeninism, Maoism ("Mao Zedong Thought") , Socialism with Chinese characteristics Deng Xiaoping Theory Primary stage of socialism Four Cardinal Principles Three Represents Scientific Outlook on Development Harmonious Socialist Society Chinese Dream , . , Constitution, Law, . Constitution Current constitution (1982) Previous constitutions 1954, 1975, 1978, . "People's democratic dictatorship" , Laws, Statutes, . , Legislative National People's Congress (12th) Members Presidium Standing Committee Chairman: Zhang Dejiang , . , Executive State Council Premier(list): Li Keqiang Vice Premiers (list) Zhang Gaoli, Liu Yandong, Wang Yang, Ma Kai, . State Councilors Secretary-General , . , United Front Political Consultative Conference National Committee Chairman: Yu Zhengsheng , Political parties, . , Military Central Military Commission Chairman: Xi Jinping People's Liberation Army People's Armed Police Force , State Council National Mobilization Commission Chairman: Li Keqiang Ministry of National Defense Minister: Chang Wanquan People's Armed Police Force , National Security Commission Chairman: Xi Jinping , . , Judiciary Central Politics and Law Commission Secretary: Meng Jianzhu , Supreme People's Court President: Zhou Qiang , Supreme People's Procuratorate Procurator-General: Cao Jianming , . , Publicity Leading Group for Propaganda, Central Guidance Commission for Building Spiritual Civilization Chairman: Liu Yunshan , Propaganda Department Head: Liu Qibao , . , Foreign relations Foreign aid program, China and the United Nations, ChinaaUnited States relations, . , Related topics Administrative divisions Politics of Hong Kong Politics of Macau , Elections, Human rights, Internet Internet censorship , . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The politics of the People's Republic of China takes places in a framework of a socialist republic run by a single party, the Communist Party of China. The leadership [ ambiguous ] of the Communist Party is stated in the Constitution of the People's Republic of China. State power within the People's Republic of China (PRC) is exercised through the Communist Party, the Central People's Government and their provincial and local representation.
Under the dual leadership system, each local Bureau or office is under the coequal authority of the local leader and the leader of the corresponding office, bureau or ministry at the next higher level. People's Congress members at the county level are elected by voters. These county level People's Congresses have the responsibility of oversight of local government, and elect members to the Provincial (or Municipal in the case of independent municipalities) People's Congress. The Provincial People's Congress in turn elects members to the National People's Congress that meets each year in March in Beijing. [ 1 ] The ruling Communist Party committee at each level plays a large role in the selection of appropriate candidates for election to the local congress and to the higher levels.
The President of China is the titular head of state, serving as the ceremonial figurehead under National People's Congress. [ a ] The Premier of China is the head of government, presiding over the State Council composed of four vice premiers and the heads of ministries and commissions. As a single-party state, the General Secretary of the Communist Party of China holds ultimate power and authority over state and government. [ b ] 
China's population, geographical vastness, and social diversity frustrate attempts to rule from Beijing. Economic reform during the 1980s and the devolution of much central government decision making, combined with the strong interest of local Communist Party officials in enriching themselves, has made it increasingly difficult for the central government to assert its authority. [ 4 ] Political power has become much less personal and more institutionally based than it was during the first forty years of the PRC. For example, Deng Xiaoping was never the General Secretary of the Communist Party of China or President, Premier of China, yet he was the leader of China for a decade. Today the authority of China's leaders is much more tied to their institutional base.
Central government leaders must increasingly build consensus for new policies among party members, local and regional leaders, influential non-party members, and the population at large. [ 5 ] However, control is often maintained over the larger group through control of information. The Chinese Communist Party considers China to be in the initial stages of socialism. Many Chinese and foreign observers see the PRC as in transition from a system of public ownership to one in which private ownership plays an increasingly important role. Privatization of housing and increasing freedom to make choices about education and employment severely weakened the work unit system that was once the basic cell of Communist Party control over society. China's complex political, ethnic and ideological mosaic, much less uniform beneath the surface than in the idealized story of the Publicity Department of the Communist Party of China, resists simple categorization. [ 6 ] 
As the social, cultural, and political as well as economic consequences of market reform become increasingly manifest, tensions between the oldathe way of the comradeaand the newathe way of the citizenaare sharpening. Some Chinese scholars such as Zhou Tianyong, the vice director of research of the Central Party School, argue that gradual political reform as well as repression of those pushing for overly rapid change over the next twenty years will be essential if China is to avoid an overly turbulent transition to a middle class dominated polity. [ 7 ] [ 8 ] Some Chinese look back to the Cultural Revolution and fear chaos if the Communist Party should lose control due to domestic upheavals and so a robust system of monitoring and control is in place to counter the growing pressure for political change.
Contents
1 Communist Party , 2 Government , 3 Administrative divisions , 4 Local government , 5 People's Liberation Army , 6 State leaders 6.1 Government leaders , 6.2 Politburo Standing Committee , 6.3 Full Politburo members , . , 7 Elections , 8 Legal system , 9 Nationality and ethnicity , 10 Foreign relations , 11 International disputes 11.1 Territorial disputes , . , 12 International organization participation , 13 See also , 14 Notes and references , 15 External links , 16 Bibliography , . 
Communist Party [ edit ] 
Main articles: Communist Party of China and Ideology of the Communist Party of China 
The more than 80 million-member [ 9 ] Communist Party of China (CPC) continues to dominate government. In periods of relative liberalization, the influence of people and groups outside the formal party structure has tended to increase, particularly in the economic realm. Under the command economy system, every state owned enterprise was required to have a party committee. The introduction of the market economy means that economic institutions now exist in which the party has limited or no power.
Nevertheless, in all governmental institutions in the PRC, the party committees at all levels maintain a powerful and pivotal role in administration, especially when related to politics and related aspects.
Central party control is tightest in central government offices and in urban economic, industrial, and cultural settings; it is considerably looser over government and party establishments in rural areas, where the majority of Mainland Chinese people live. The CPC's most important responsibility comes in the selection and promotion of personnel. They also see that party and state policy guidance is followed and that non-party members do not create autonomous organizations that could challenge party rule. Particularly important are the leading small groups which coordinate activities of different agencies. Although there is a convention that government committees contain at least one non-party member, a party membership is a definite aid in promotion and in being in crucial policy setting meetings.
Constitutionally, the party's highest body is the Party Congress, which is supposed to meet at least once every 5 years. Meetings were irregular before the Cultural Revolution but have been periodic since then. The party elects the Central Committee and the primary organs of power are formally parts of the central committee.
The primary organs of power in the Communist Party include:
The General Secretary, which is the highest-ranking official within the Party and usually the Chinese Paramount leader., The Politburo, consisting of 22 full members (including the members of the Politburo Standing Committee);, The Politburo Standing Committee, which currently consists of seven members;, The Secretariat, the principal administrative mechanism of the CPC, headed by the General Secretary;, The Central Military Commission;, The Central Discipline Inspection Commission, which is charged with rooting out corruption and malfeasance among party cadres., . 
Government [ edit ] 
Main article: Government of China 
The primary organs of state power are the National People's Congress (NPC), the President, and the State Council. Members of the State Council include the Premier, a variable number of vice premiers (now four), five state councilors (protocol equal of vice premiers but with narrower portfolios), and 29 ministers and heads of State Council commissions. During the 1980s there was an attempt made to separate party and state functions, with the party deciding general policy and the state carrying it out. The attempt was abandoned in the 1990s with the result that the political leadership within the state are also the leaders of the party, thereby creating a single centralized locus of power.
At the same time, there has been a convention that party and state offices be separated at levels other than the central government, and it is unheard of for a sub-national executive to also be party secretary. Conflict has been often known to develop between the chief executive and the party secretary, and this conflict is widely seen as intentional to prevent either from becoming too dominant. Some special cases are the Special Administrative Regions of Hong Kong and Macau where the Communist Party does not function at all as part of the governmental system, and the autonomous regions where, following Soviet practice, the chief executive is typically a member of the local ethnic group while the party general secretary is non-local and usually Han Chinese.
Under the Constitution of China, the NPC is the highest organ of state power in China. It meets annually for about 2 weeks to review and approve major new policy directions, laws, the budget, and major personnel changes. Most national legislation in China is adopted by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPCSC). Most initiatives are presented to the NPCSC for consideration by the State Council after previous endorsement by the Communist Party's Politburo Standing Committee. Although the NPC generally approves State Council policy and personnel recommendations, the NPC and its standing committee has increasingly asserted its role as the national legislature and has been able to force revisions in some laws. For example, the State Council and the Party have been unable to secure passage of a fuel tax to finance the construction of freeways.
Administrative divisions [ edit ] 
See also: Administrative divisions of China 
Provinces ( c ) Claimed Province Anhui ( aac ), Fujian ( cac ), Gansu ( cec ), Guangdong ( aaec ), Guizhou ( eac ), . , Hainan ( aeac ), Hebei ( aeac ), Heilongjiang ( eeaec ), Henan ( aeac ), Hubei ( aeac ), . , Hunan ( aeac ), Jiangsu ( aeec ), Jiangxi ( aeec ), Jilin ( aaec ), Liaoning ( eac ), . , Qinghai ( eaec ), Shaanxi ( eec ), Shandong ( aaec ), Shanxi ( aec ), Sichuan ( aac ), . , Yunnan ( aeac ), Zhejiang ( aeaec ), . , Taiwan ( aaec )
governed by ROC, . , Autonomous regions ( eaea ) Municipalities ( cea ) Special administrative regions ( caeaea ) Guangxi ( aeaaeeaea ), Inner Mongolia / Nei Mongol ( aeaeaea ), Ningxia ( aaaaeeaea ), Xinjiang ( aeccaaeaea ), Tibet / Xizang ( eeeaea ), . , Beijing ( aaea ), Chongqing ( eaa ), Shanghai ( aeaea ), Tianjin ( aaea ), . , Hong Kong / Xianggang ( eaecaeaea ), Macau / Aomen ( aeecaeaea ), . , Local government [ edit ] 
Currently, local government in China is structured in a hierarchy on four different levels. With the village being the grassroots (usually a hundred or so families), and not considered part of the hierarchy, local government advances through the township , county , prefecture or municipality , and the province as the geographical area of jurisdiction increases. Each level in the hierarchy is responsible for overseeing the work carried out by lower levels on the administrative strata. At each level are two important officials. A figure that represents the Communist Party of China, colloquially termed the Party chief or the Party Secretary , acts as the policy maker. This figure is appointed by their superiors. The head of the local People's Government, is, in theory, elected by the people. Usually called a governor , mayor , or magistrate , depending on the level, this figure acts to carry out the policies and most ceremonial duties. The distinction has evolved into a system where the Party Secretary is always in precedence above the leader of the People's Government.
After Deng Xiaoping took power in 1978 greater autonomy has been given to provinces in terms of economic policy implementation as well as other areas of policy such as education and transportation. As a result, some provincial authorities have evolved tendencies of operating on a de facto federal system with Beijing. Prominent examples of greater autonomy are seen in the provinces of Guangdong and Zhejiang, where local leaders do little to adhere to the strict standards issued by the Central Government, especially economic policy. In addition, conflicts have arisen in the relations of the central Party leaders with the few provincial-level Municipalities, most notably the municipal government of Shanghai and the rivalry between former Beijing mayor Chen Xitong and Jiang Zemin. The removal of Shanghai Municipality Party Secretary Chen Liangyu in September 2006 is the latest example.
China's system of autonomous regions and autonomous prefectures within provinces are formally intended to provide for greater autonomy by the ethnic group majority that inhabits the region. In practice, however, power rests with the Party secretary. Beijing will often appoint loyal party cadres to oversee the local work as Party secretary, while the local Chairman of the region's government is regarded as its nominal head. Power rests with the Party secretary. To avoid the solidification of local loyalties during a cadre's term in office, the central government freely and frequently transfers party cadres around different regions of the country, so a high ranking cadre's career might include service as governor or party secretary of several different provinces.
People's Liberation Army [ edit ] 
Main article: People's Liberation Army 
The Communist Party of China created and leads the Peopleas Liberation Army. After the PRC was established in 1949, the PLA also became a state military. The state military system inherited and upholds the principle of the Communist Partyas absolute leadership over the peopleas armed forces. The Party and the State jointly established the Central Military Commission that carries out the task of supreme military leadership over the armed forces.
The 1954 PRC Constitution provides that the State Chairman (President) directs the armed forces and made the State Chairman the chair of the Defense Commission (the Defense Commission is an advisory body, it does not lead the armed forces). On September 28, 1954, the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party re-established the Central Military Commission as the leader of the PLA and the peopleas armed forces. From that time onwards, the system of joint Party and state military leadership was established. The Central Committee of the Communist Party leads in all military affairs. The State Chairman directs the state military forces and the development of the military forces managed by the State Council. [ 10 ] 
In December 1982, the fifth National Peopleas Congress revised the State Constitution to provide that the State Central Military Commission leads all the armed forces of the state. The chair of the State CMC is chosen and removed by the full NPC while the other members are chosen by the NPC Standing Committee. However, the CMC of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China remained the Party organization that directly leads the military and all the other armed forces. In actual practice, the Party CMC, after consultation with the democratic parties, proposes the names of the State CMC members of the NPC so that these people after going through the legal processes can be elected by the NPC to the State Central Military Commission. That is to say, that the CMC of the Central Committee and the CMC of the State are one group and one organization. However, looking at it organizationally, these two CMCs are subordinate to two different systems a the Party system and the State system. Therefore the armed forces are under the absolute leadership of the Communist Party and are also the armed forces of the state. This is a unique Chinese system that ensures the joint leadership of the Communist Party and the state over the armed forces. [ 10 ] 
See also: List of wars involving the People's Republic of China 
State leaders [ edit ] 
See also: Paramount leader, Political position ranking of PRC, Politburo of the Communist Party of China and Generations of Chinese leadership 
Government leaders [ edit ] 
The President and Vice President are elected by the National People's Congress for five-year terms. The State Council is appointed by the National People's Congress (NPC)., . 
Main office holders Office Name Party Since President, Xi Jinping, Communist Party of China, March 15, 2013, Vice President, Li Yuanchao, Communist Party of China, March 15, 2013, Premier of the State Council, Li Keqiang, Communist Party of China, March 15, 2003, Vice Premiers of the State Council, Zhang Gaoli
Liu Yandong
Wang Yang
Ma Kai, Communist Party of China, March 15, 2008, Chairman of the NPC Standing Committee, Zhang Dejiang, Communist Party of China, March 14, 2013, Vice-Chairperson of the NPC Standing Committee, Wang Zhaoguo
Lu Yongxiang
Wuyunqimuge
Han Qide
Hua Jianmin
Chen Zhili
Zhou Tienong
Li Jianguo
SimayiATieliwardi
Jiang Shusheng
Chen Changzhi
Yan Junqi
Sang Guowei, Communist Party of China
Revolutionary Committee of The Chinese Kuomintang
China Democratic League
China Democratic National Construction Association
China Association for Promoting Democracy
Chinese Peasants' and Workers' Democratic Party
China Zhi Gong Dang
Jiusan Society
Taiwan Democratic Self-Government League
nonparty personage, March 15, 2003, Chairman of the Central Military Commission, Xi Jinping, Communist Party of China, November 15, 2012, Vice-Chairmen of the Central Military Commission, Fan Changlong
Xu Qiliang, Communist Party of China, November, 2012
November, 2012, Politburo Standing Committee [ edit ] 
a Portrait Information Party position(s) State position(s) 1st 
[ 11 ] , Name, Xi Jinping, General Secretary of the CPC Central Committee
Chairman of the CPC Central Military Commission
Leader of the Central Leading Group for Comprehensively Deepening Reforms
Chairman of the National Security Commission, President of the People's Republic of China
Chairman of the PRC Central Military Commission, Birthplace, Xicheng District, Beijing, NPC Constituency , Shanghai At-large, Member since, 22 October 2007, 2nd 
[ 11 ] , Name, Li Keqiang, Party secretary of the State Council of the People's Republic of China
Deputy Leader of the Central Leading Group for Comprehensively Deepening Reforms
Vice Chairman of the National Security Commission, Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China, Birthplace, Dingyuan County, Anhui, NPC Constituency , Shandong At-large, Member since, 22 October 2007, 3rd 
[ 11 ] , Name, Zhang Dejiang, Party secretary of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress
Vice Chairman of the National Security Commission, Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, Birthplace, Tai'an County, Liaoning, NPC Constituency , Zhejiang At-large, Member since, 15 November 2012, 4th 
[ 11 ] , Name, Yu Zhengsheng, Party secretary of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, Chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, Birthplace, Shaoxing, Zhejiang, NPC Constituency , Hubei At-large, Member since, 15 November 2012, 5th 
[ 11 ] , Name, Liu Yunshan, Top-ranked Secretary of the Central Secretariat of the CPC
Chairman of the Central Guidance Commission for Building Spiritual Civilization
President of the CPC Central Party School
Deputy Leader of the Central Leading Group for Comprehensively Deepening Reforms, Birthplace, Tumed Right Banner, Inner Mongolia , NPC Constituency , Inner Mongolia At-large, Member since, 15 November 2012, 6th 
[ 11 ] , Name, Wang Qishan, Secretary of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, Birthplace, Tianzhen County, Shanxi, NPC Constituency , Beijing At-large, Member since, 15 November 2012, 7th 
[ 11 ] , Name, Zhang Gaoli, Deputy Party secretary of the State Council of the People's Republic of China
Deputy Leader of the Central Leading Group for Comprehensively Deepening Reforms, First Vice Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China, Birthplace, Jinjiang, Fujian, NPC Constituency , Tianjin At-large, Member since, 15 November 2012, Full Politburo members [ edit ] 
Xi Jinping, General Secretary of the Communist Party, Chairman of the Central Military Commission, President of the People's Republic of China, 1st-ranked member of Politburo Standing Committee, Ma Kai, 4th Vice Premier, Wang Qishan, 6th-ranked member of Politburo Standing Committee, Secretary of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, Wang Huning, Director of the Policy Resarch Office of the CPC Central Committee, Liu Yunshan, 5th-ranked member of Politburo Standing Committee, Top-ranked Secretary of the CPC Central Secretariat, Chairman of the Central Guidance Commission for Building Spiritual Civilization, President of the Central Party School, Liu Yandong, Second Vice Premier of the People's Republic of China, Liu Qibao, Secretary of the CPC Central Secretariat, Head of the CPC Propaganda Department, Xu Qiliang, Vice Chairman of the Central Military Commission, Sun Chunlan, Party chief of Tianjin, Sun Zhengcai, Party chief of Chongqing, Li Keqiang, 2nd-ranked member of Politburo Standing Committee, Premier of the People's Republic of China, Li Jianguo, Vice-Chairman and Secretary-General oft the National People's Congress, Li Yuanchao, Vice President of the People's Republic of China, Wang Yang, Third Vice Premier, Zhang Chunxian, Party chief of Xinjiang, Zhang Gaoli, 7th-ranked member of Politburo Standing Committee, First Vice Premier, Zhang Dejiang, 3rd-ranked member of Politburo Standing Committee, Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, Fan Changlong, Vice Chairman of the Central Military Commission, Meng Jianzhu, Head of the Central Politics and Law Commission of the Communist Party of China, Zhao Leji, Secretary of the CPC Central Secretariat, Head of the CPC Organization Department, Hu Chunhua, Party chief of Guangdong, Yu Zhengsheng, 4th-ranked member of Politburo Standing Committee and Chairman of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, Li Zhanshu, Secretary of CPC Central Secretariat, Chief of the General Office of the Communist Party of China, Guo Jinlong, Party chief of Beijing, Han Zheng, Party chief of Shanghai, . 
Elections [ edit ] 
Main article: Elections in the People's Republic of China 
No substantial legal political opposition groups exist, and the country is mainly run by the Communist Party of China (CPC), but there are other political parties in the PRC, called "democratic parties", which participate in the People's Political Consultative Conference but mostly serve to endorse CPC policies. Even as there have been some moves in the direction of democratisation as far as the electoral system at least, in that openly contested People's Congress elections are now held at the village and town levels, [ 12 ] and that legislatures have shown some assertiveness from time to time, the party retains effective control over governmental appointments. This is because the CPC wins by default in most electorates. [ 13 ] The CPC has been enforcing its rule by clamping down on political dissidents as well as simultaneously attempting to reduce dissent by improving the economy and allowing public expression of people's personal grievances, provided that it is not within the agenda of any NGO or other groups openly or covertly opposing CPC ideals. Current political concerns in Mainland China include countering the growing gap between the wealthy and the poorer, and fighting corruption within the government leadership and its institutions. [ 14 ] The support that the Communist Party of China has among the Chinese population in general is unclear because national elections are mostly CPC dominated, [ 15 ] as there are no opposition political parties and independent candidates elected into office aren't organised well enough to realistically challenge CPC rule. Also, private conversations and anecdotal information often reveal conflicting views. However, according to a survey conducted in Hong Kong, where a relatively high level of freedom is enjoyed, the current CPC leaders have received substantial votes of support when its residents were asked to rank their favourite Chinese leaders from Mainland and Taiwan. [ 16 ] 
The eight registered minor parties have existed since before 1950. These parties all formally accept the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC) and their activities are directed by the United Front Work Department of the CPC. Their original function was to create the impression that the PRC was being ruled by a diverse national front, not a one-party dictatorship. The major role of these parties is to attract and subsequently muzzle niches in society that have political tendencies, such as the academia. Although these parties are tightly controlled and do not challenge the Communist Party, members of the parties often individually are found in policy-making national institutions, and there is a convention that state institutions generally have at least one sinecure from a minor political party.
The minor parties include the Revolutionary Committee of the Chinese Guomindang, founded in 1948 by dissident members of the mainstream Kuomintang then under control of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek; China Democratic League, created in 1941 by intellectuals in education and the arts; China Democratic National Construction Association, formed in 1945 by educators and national capitalists (industrialists and business people); China Association for Promoting Democracy, started in 1945 by intellectuals in cultural, education (primary and secondary schools), and publishing circles; Chinese Peasants' and Workers' Democratic Party, originated in 1930 by intellectuals in medicine, the arts, and education; China Party for Public Interest (China Zhi Gong Dang), founded in 1925 to attract the support of overseas Chinese; Jiusan Society, founded in 1945 by a group of college professors and scientists to commemorate the victory of the "international war against fascism" on September 3; and Taiwan Democratic Self-Government League, created in 1947 by "patriotic supporters of democracy who originated in Taiwan and now reside on the mainland."
Coordination between the eight registered minor parties and the Communist Party of China is done through the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference which meets annually in Beijing in March at about the same time that the National People's Congress meets. In addition, there are a few minor parties which either lack official recognition or are actively suppressed by the government, such as the China Democracy Party and China New Democracy Party, which have their headquarters outside of the Mainland China. [ 17 ] 
Legal system [ edit ] 
Main article: Law of the People's Republic of China 
The Chinese legal code is a complex amalgam of custom and statute, largely focused on criminal law, though a rudimentary civil code has been in effect since January 1, 1987 and new legal codes have been in effect since January 1, 1980. Continuing efforts are being made to improve civil, administrative, criminal, and commercial law.
The government's efforts to promote rule of law are significant and ongoing. After the Cultural Revolution, the PRC's leaders aimed to develop a legal system to restrain abuses of official authority and revolutionary excesses. In 1982, the National People's Congress adopted a new state constitution that emphasized the concept of rule of law by which party and state organizations are all subject to the law. (The importance of the rule of law was further elevated by a 1999 Constitutional amendment.) Many commentators [ who? ] have pointed out that the emphasis on rule of law increases rather than decreases the power of the Communist Party of China because the party, in its position of power, is in a better position to change the law to suit its own needs.
Since 1979, when the drive to establish a functioning legal system began, more than 301 laws and regulations, most of them in the economic area, have been promulgated. (After China's entry into the WTO, many new economically related laws have been put in place, while others have been amended.) The use of mediation committees - informed groups of citizens who resolve about 90f the PRC's civil disputes and some minor criminal cases at no cost to the parties - is one innovative device. There are more than 800, 000 such committees in both rural and urban areas.
Legal reform became a government priority in the 1990s. Legislation designed to modernize and professionalize the nation's lawyers, judges, and prisons was enacted. The 1994 Administrative Procedure Law allows citizens to sue officials for abuse of authority or malfeasance. In addition, the criminal law and the criminal procedures laws were amended to introduce significant reforms. The criminal law amendments abolished the crime of "counter-revolutionary" activity (and references to "counter-revolutionaries" disappeared with the passing of the 1999 Constitutional amendment), while criminal procedures reforms encouraged establishment of a more transparent, adversarial trial process. The PRC Constitution and laws provide for fundamental human rights, including due process, although those laws also provide for limitations of those rights.
Although the human rights situation in mainland China has improved markedly since the 1960s (the 2004 Constitutional amendments specifically stressed that the State protects human rights), the government remains determined to prevent any organized opposition to its rule. Amnesty International estimates that the PRC holds several thousand political prisoners. Although illegal, there have been reports of torture by civil authorities.
Nationality and ethnicity [ edit ] 
Nationality is granted at birth to children with at least one Chinese-national parent, with some exceptions. In general, naturalization or the obtainment of People's Republic of China nationality is difficult. The Nationality Law prescribes only three conditions for the obtainment of PRC nationality (marriage to a PRC national is one, permanent residence is another). If a PRC citizen voluntarily obtains a foreign nationality, he or she loses Chinese nationality automatically. If the citizen then wishes to resume PRC nationality, the foreign nationality is no longer recognized. For more details, see Nationality Law of the People's Republic of China.
The PRC is officially a multi-ethnic state providing ethnic autonomy in the form of autonomous administrative entities in accordance with Section 6 of Chapter 3 (Articles 111-122) of the Constitution of China, and with more detail under the Law of the People's Republic of China on Regional National Autonomy. By law, ethnic minorities receive advantages in areas such as population control, school admissions, government employment, and military recruitment. The PRC refers to all 56 official nationalities as equal members of the Chinese nation. However, separatist sentiment has occasionally flared in Tibet and Xinjiang. As such, independence groups and foreign human rights groups are critical of the PRC's policies in ethnic areas, and have bemoaned the presence of Han Chinese (the main ethnic group of China) in Xinjiang and Tibet.
Foreign relations [ edit ] 
Presidents Hu Jintao and George W. Bush, with first ladies Liu Yongqing and Laura Bush, wave from the White House. The relationship between the world's sole superpower United States and the emerging superpower status of the PRC is closely watched by international observers. The Karakoram Highway connecting China and Pakistan is an example of China's international development involvements. Main article: Foreign relations of China 
The PRC maintains diplomatic relations with most countries in the world. In 1971, the PRC replaced the Republic of China, commonly known as "Taiwan" since the 1970s, as the sole representative of China in the United Nations and as one of the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council. [ 18 ] China was represented by the Republic of China at the time of the UN's founding in 1945. (See China and the United Nations).
Under the One-China policy, the PRC has made it a precondition to establishing diplomatic relations that the other country acknowledges its claim to all of China, including Taiwan, and severs any official ties with the Republic of China (ROC) government. The government actively opposes foreign government meetings with the 14th Dalai Lama in a political capacity, as the spokesperson of a separatist movement in Tibet.
The PRC has been playing a leading role in calling for free trade areas and security pacts amongst its Asia-Pacific neighbors. In 2004, the PRC proposed an entirely new East Asia Summit (EAS) framework as a forum for regional security issues that pointedly excluded the United States. [ 19 ] The EAS, which includes ASEAN Plus Three, India, Australia and New Zealand, held its inaugural summit in 2005. China is also a founder and member of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO), alongside Russia and the Central Asian republics.
Much of the current foreign policy is based on the concept of China's peaceful development. Nonetheless, crises in relations with foreign countries have occurred at various times in its recent history, particularly with the United States; e.g., the U.S. bombing of the Chinese embassy in Belgrade during the Kosovo conflict in May 1999 and the Hainan Island incident in April 2001. China's foreign relations with many Western nations suffered for a time following the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. A much troubled foreign relationship is that between China and Japan, which has been strained at times by Japan's refusal to acknowledge its war-time past to the satisfaction of the PRC, such as revisionistic comments made by prominent Japanese officials, and insufficient details given to the Nanjing Massacre and other atrocities committed during World War II in Japanese history textbooks. Another point of conflict between the two countries is the frequent visits by Japanese government officials to the Yasukuni Shrine, which honors not only Japanese World War II dead but also many convicted World War II war criminals, including 14 Class A convictions.
International disputes [ edit ] 
The PRC is in a number of international territorial disputes, several of which involved the Sino-Russian border. Although the great majority of them are now resolved, China's territorial disputes have led to several localized wars in the last 50 years, including the Sino-Indian War in 1962, the Sino-Soviet border conflict in 1969 and the Sino-Vietnam War in 1979. In 2001, China and Russia signed the Treaty of Good-Neighborliness and Friendly Cooperation, [ 20 ] which ended the conflict. Other territorial disputes include islands in the East and South China Seas, and undefined or disputed borders with India, Bhutan and North Korea.
Territorial disputes [ edit ] 
The following territories are claimed by both China and one or more other countries:
Socotra Rock (with South Korea), Diaoyu Islands (with Japan and Taiwan), Nansha Archipelago also known as "Spratly Islands" (with Vietnam, Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Taiwan), Xisha Archipelago (with Taiwan and Vietnam), Huangyan Island (with the Philippines), South Tibet - parts of Arunachal Pradesh (with India), Aksai Chin - (with India; however Pakistan has accepted an unmarked boundary and recognised China's governance of the area)., . 
In addition, the People's Republic of China and the Republic of China (Taiwan) share the 1992 Consensus that there is only "One China"; thus, each claims sovereignty over the entire territory of the other.
International organization participation [ edit ] 
AfDB, APEC, AsDB, BIS, CDB (non-regional), ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, International Maritime Organization, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, ITUC, LAIA (observer), MINURSO, NAM (observer), OPCW, PCA, United Nations, UN Security Council, UNAMSIL, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNITAR, UNTSO, UNU, UPU, WCO, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, Zangger Committee
See also [ edit ] 
Corporatism, Politics of Hong Kong, Politics of Macau, Chinese Socialist Democracy, . 
Notes and references [ edit ] 
, This article contains Chinese text. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Chinese characters., ^ The office of the President is a prestigious one. The President is the Head of the State. The Constitution of 1982 restores powers and functions of the President of the People's Republic of China and recognizes him as the Head of the State. But he is not the real executive like the American President but only a ceremonial Head. He can be compared with the Indian President or King/Queen of England. [ 2 ] , ^ Xi Jinping, 59, was named general secretary of the 82- million member Communist Party and is set to take over the presidency, a mostly ceremonial post, from Hu Jintao in March. [ 3 ] , ^ http://www.china.org.cn/english/chuangye/55414.htm National People's Congress system overview on China.org.cn , ^ Krishna Kanta Handique State Open University, EXECUTIVE: THE PRESIDENT OF THE CHINESE REPUBLIC. , ^ Whoas Who in Chinaas New Communist Party Leadership Lineup - Bloomberg , ^ Pitfalls of Modernization caeacee by He Qinglian published in PRC 1996, never translated. , ^ Yang, Dali. Remaking the Chinese Leviathan , Stanford University Press, 2004. , ^ Boum, Aomar (1999). Journal of Political Ecology: Case Studies in History and Society. Retrieved April 18, 2006. , ^ Part I of summary of Zhou Tianyong's 2004 book Reform of the Chinese Political System Accessed February 7, 2007. , ^ Part II of summary of Zhou Tianyong's 2004 book Reform of the Chinese Political System Accessed February 7, 2007. , ^ "Backgrounder: The Communist Party of China". News of the Communist Party of China . Retrieved 2011-06-25 . , ^ a b Pu Xingzu, Chapter 11, The State Military System in "The Political System of the People's Republic of China", (Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo Zhengzhi Zhidu) Chief Editor Pu Xingzu, Shanghai, 2005, Shanghai Peopleas Publishing House. ISBN 7-208-05566-1 , ^ a b c d e f g "Xinhua Insight: China's new helmsmen". Xinhua. 15 November 2012 . Retrieved 17 November 2012 . , ^ "Beijingers get greater poll choices", China Daily , December 12, 2003 , ^ "Does Chinaas Land-Tenure System Discourage Structural Adjustment?", Lohmar and Somwaru, USDA Economic Research Service, 1 May 2006. Accessed 3 May 2006. , ^ China sounds alarm over fast-growing gap between rich and poor. Retrieved April 16, 2006. , ^ Beijingers get greater poll choices, China Daily, December 8, 2003 , ^ "HKU POP SITE releases the latest ratings of the top 10 political figures in Mainland China and Taiwan as well as people's appraisal of past Chinese leaders". 4 April 2006. HKU POP. Accessed 3 May 2006. , ^ https://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/geos/ch.html CIA - The World Factbook -- China, retrieved December 12, 2007. , ^ Eddy Chang (Aug 22, 2004). Perseverance will pay off at the UN, The Taipei Times, August 22, 2004 , ^ Dillon, Dana and John Tkacik Jr, "Chinaas Quest for Asia", Policy Review , December 2005 and January 2006, Issue No. 134. Accessed 22 April 2006. , ^ Treaty of Good-Neighborliness and Friendly Cooperation (March 21, 2006). Retrieved April 16, 2006. , External links [ edit ] 
China Politics Links, The Central Chinese Government's Official Web Portal, Government of China by chinawikipedia.com, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China, Embassy of the People's Republic of China in the United States, Chinese Legislative Information Network System full text search of English translations of hundreds of PRC laws and regulations, PRC government new items in English from PRC government official website, Chinaview from the Xinhua News Agency, People's Daily Online in English, PLA Daily English news, China Daily in English, Inside China's Ruling Party (BBC), Is China really a Communist state? (CNN), New York Times article of September 5, 2002 on Succession of Rule in China, Chinese Officials Lighten Up Under Pressure (China Today), Primer on China's Leadership Transition, . 
Bibliography [ edit ] 
Sebastian Heilmann and Elizabeth J. Perry, editors, Mao's Invisible Hand: The Political Foundations of Adaptive Governance in China , Harvard University Asia Center (May 1, 2011), trade paperback, 336 pages, ISBN 0674060636 ISBN 978-0674060630, . 
v , t , e , . Politics of China , Constitution of China , Parties Parties, Communist Party Central Committee General Secretary, Central Politburo, Politburo Standing Committee, Central Secretariat, . , Discipline Inspection Commission, . , . , State organs National People's Congress Standing Committee, Chairman, . , President Vice President, . , State Council Premier, Vice Premier, . , Central Military Commission Chairman, People's Liberation Army, . , People's Political Consultative Conference National Committee, Chairman, . , . , Politics of
province-level
divisions 
Municipalities Beijing, Chongqing, Shanghai, Tianjin, . , Provinces Anhui, Fujian, Gansu, Guangdong, Guizhou, Hainan, Hebei, Heilongjiang, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Jilin, Liaoning, Qinghai, Shaanxi, Shandong, Shanxi, Sichuan, Yunnan, Zhejiang, . , Autonomous
regions Guangxi, Inner Mongolia, Ningxia, Xinjiang, Tibet, . , SARs Hong Kong, Macau, . , See also Elections , v , t , e , . Chinatopics , History , China timeline, . , Republic of China (1912a49) , People's Republic of China, 1949a76, 1976a89, 1989a2002, Since 2002, Years in the People's Republic of China, . , Geography, Natural environment, . , Overviews Extreme points, Geology, Natural disasters, . , Regions East, Northeast, North, South Central Central, South, . , Western Northwest, Southwest, . , . , Terrain Bays, Canyons, Caves, Deserts, Grasslands, Hills, Islands, Mountains ranges, passes, . , Peninsulas, Northeast/ North/ Central Plains, Valleys, Volcanoes, . , Water Canals, Lakes, Rivers, Waterfalls, Wetlands, Water resources, . , Seas Bohai, Yellow, East China, South China, . , Reserves Protected areas, National parks, Nature reserves, UNESCO Biosphere Reserves, . , Wildlife Fauna, Flora, . , Government, Politics , Economy, . , Government
and politics Civil service, Constitution, Elections, Environmental policy, Foreign relations, Military (People's Liberation Army) , National People's Congress, National security, Political parties and movements Communist Party, Democratic Parties, Anti-democratisation, Pro-democratisation, . , President Vice President, . , State Council Premier, Vice Premier, . , . , Administrative
divisions Baseline islands, Border crossings, Cities, Province-level subdivisions, . , Law Judicial system, Human rights LGBT, . , Law enforcement, Nationality law, Penal system, . , Economy Agriculture, Banking Central bank, . , Economic history, Energy Renewable energy, . , Finance system, Foreign aid received, Foreign aid program, Historical GDP, International rankings, Poverty, Reform, Renminbi (currency) , Science and technology history, . , Special Economic Zones (SEZs), Standard of living, Telecommunications, Tourism, Transport airports, ports and harbors, . , . , People, Society, Culture, . , People Demographics, Emigration, Ethnic groups, Internal migration, Statistics, Urbanization, . , Society Anthem, Chinese Dream, Corruption, Crime, Emblem, Education universities, . , Flag, "Generation Y", Harmonious Socialist Society, HIV/AIDS, Intellectualism, Languages, Poverty, Public health food safety incidents, . , . , Public holidays, Rural life, Sexuality, Socialism with Chinese characteristics, Social issues, Social relations, Social structure, Social welfare, Suicide, Terrorism, Time zones, Urban life, Water supply and sanitation, Women, Xiaokang (middle-class) , Primary stage of socialism, . , Culture Archaeology, Archives, Art, Cinema, Cuisine, Dance, Gardens, Libraries, Literature, Martial arts, Media newspapers, radio, television, . , Music, Parks, Philosophy, Religion, Smoking, Sports, Tea culture, Tourism, Variety arts, World Heritage Sites, . , Index, . Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Politics of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China , Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , Politics portal , China portal , . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_China and oldid=631902098" Categories: Politics of China, . Hidden categories: Wikipedia articles needing clarification from May 2014, Articles containing simplified Chinese-language text, Articles containing Chinese-language text, All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases, Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from December 2011, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, DNDDDNNDD, Deutsch, EspaAol, Euskara, FranAais, Magyar, Bahasa Melayu, aeaee, Polski, PortuguAs, DNNNDDD, Shqip, Simple English, Svenska, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 31 October 2014 at 16:14.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
