
Civil Service of the Russian Federation - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Civil Service of the Russian Federation 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Civil Service of the Russian Federation is professional service activities of citizens of the Russian Federation for the enforcement power of the State.
Contents
1 Federal Law "On the State Civil Service of the Russian Federation" , 2 Law structure 2.1 Chapter 1. General Provisions , 2.2 Chapter 2. Civil Service Positions , 2.3 Chapter 3. Legal Status civil servants , 2.4 Chapter 4. Joining the civil service , 2.5 Chapter 5. Official contract , 2.6 Chapter 6. bases and consequences of termination of the contract of service , 2.7 Chapter 7 personal data of a civil servant. personnel office of the state body , 2.8 Chapter 8 working hours and rest periods , 2.9 Chapter 9 passing the civil service , 2.10 Chapter 10 pay civil servants , 2.11 Chapter 11 state guarantees in the civil service , 2.12 Chapter 12 promotion and rewarding. service discipline in the civil service , 2.13 Chapter 13, the formation of civil service cadre , 2.14 Chapter 14 funding for the civil service. development program of civil service , 2.15 Chapter 15: State supervision and monitoring of compliance with legislation of the Russian Federation on the State Civil Service of the Russian Federation , 2.16 Chapter 16 review of individual service dispute , 2.17 Chapter 17. the entry into force of this Federal Law , . , . 
Federal Law "On the State Civil Service of the Russian Federation" [ edit ] 
Signed by the President of Russia in 2004.
Law structure [ edit ] 
Chapter 1. General Provisions [ edit ] 
Chapter 2. Civil Service Positions [ edit ] 
Chapter 3. Legal Status civil servants [ edit ] 
In connection with the passage of the civil service civil servant shall not allow public statements, judgments and estimates, including in the media, in relation to the activities of government agencies and their leaders, including the decisions of higher state body or public authority, which replaces the position of a civil servant civil service if it is not part of his official duties.
Chapter 4. Joining the civil service [ edit ] 
Receipt of a citizen in the civil service for a post civil service or replacement of other civil servants civil service positions is carried out on the results of the competition, unless otherwise stipulated by this article. The contest is to assess the professional level candidates for the position of the civil service, their compliance with the qualification requirements for civil service positions.
The competition jury consists of representatives of the employer, the representative of the management body of public service, as well as representatives of the scientific and educational institutions, and other organizations invited by the management body of public service at the request of the employer representative as independent experts - experts on issues related to civil service without specifying personal data experts. The number of independent experts should be not less than one quarter of the total number of members of the competition committee.
Chapter 5. Official contract [ edit ] 
Chapter 6. bases and consequences of termination of the contract of service [ edit ] 
Chapter 7 personal data of a civil servant. personnel office of the state body [ edit ] 
Chapter 8 working hours and rest periods [ edit ] 
Chapter 9 passing the civil service [ edit ] 
Chapter 10 pay civil servants [ edit ] 
Chapter 11 state guarantees in the civil service [ edit ] 
Chapter 12 promotion and rewarding. service discipline in the civil service [ edit ] 
Chapter 13, the formation of civil service cadre [ edit ] 
Chapter 14 funding for the civil service. development program of civil service [ edit ] 
Chapter 15: State supervision and monitoring of compliance with legislation of the Russian Federation on the State Civil Service of the Russian Federation [ edit ] 
Chapter 16 review of individual service dispute [ edit ] 
Chapter 17. the entry into force of this Federal Law [ edit ] 
v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service , Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Civil_Service_of_the_Russian_Federation and oldid=628482311" Categories: Russian law, Russia stubs, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DNNNDDD, DNDNDD / srpski, . Edit links This page was last modified on 6 October 2014 at 14:37.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
