
Constitution of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Constitution of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search For previous Constitution of the Russian Federation (1978-1993), see 1978 RSFSR Constitution. For other constitutions and the Fundamental Laws of the Russian Empire, see Russian constitution. Not to be confused with Constitution of the Soviet Union. 
Constitution of Russia Presidential copy of the Constitution. , Ratified December 12, 1993 , Location Moscow Kremlin, Signatories Citizens of Russia, Russia , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Russia , Constitution , Law, . Impeachment, Mental Health Law, Russian Criminal Code, Tax Code, . , Presidency President: Vladimir Putin, . Presidential Administration, Security Council, State Council, . , Executive Prime Minister: Dmitry Medvedev, . Government, Cabinet (14th) , . , Legislature Federal Assembly, Federation Council, State Duma, . , . , Judiciary Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, Prosecutor General, Supreme Court of Arbitration, Legal system, . , Elections Presidential elections, Legislative elections, Central Election Commission, Electoral geography, Political parties, . , Foreign relations United Nations, ArabaIsraeli conflict, . , Related topics Administrative divisions, Federal subjects, Regional parliaments, Armed forces, Martial law, . , Civic Chamber, Accounts Chamber, E-Government, Opposition, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The current Constitution of the Russian Federation (Russian: DDDNNDNNNDN DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD , Konstitutsiya Rossiyskoy Federatsii ; pronounced [kEnsEtEEEtutsEjE rEEsEijskEj fEEdEEEratsEE] ) was adopted by national referendum on December 12, 1993 . Russia's constitution came into force on December 25, 1993 , at the moment of its official publication, and abolished the Soviet system of government. The current Constitution is the most long-lived in the history of Russia, except for the Stalin's constitution.
The 1993 Constitutional Conference was attended by over 800 participants. Sergei Alexeyev, Sergey Shakhray and sometimes Anatoly Sobchak are considered as co-authors of the constitution. The text of the constitution was inspired by Mikhail Speransky's constitutional project and current French constitution. [ 1 ] 
A constitutional referendum was held in Russia on 12 December 1993. Of all registered voters, 58, 187, 755 people (or 54.8participated in the referendum. Of those, 32, 937, 630 (54.5voted for adoption of the Constitution. [ 2 ] It replaced the previous Soviet-era Constitution of April 12, 1978 of Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (which had already been amended in April 1992 to reflect the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the sovereignty of the Russian Federation), following the 1993 Russian constitutional crisis.
Contents
1 History 1.1 Constitutions in 19th and 20th centuries , 1.2 Constitution of Russia after USSR , . , 2 Structure 2.1 Section One , 2.2 Section Two , . , 3 Overview 3.1 Presidency , 3.2 Executive branch , 3.3 Legislative branch , 3.4 Judiciary , 3.5 Local government , . , 4 See also , 5 Notes , 6 References , 7 External links , . 
History [ edit ] 
Constitutions in 19th and 20th centuries [ edit ] 
Main article: History of constitution of Russia 
, This section requires expansion. (August 2012) , Constitution of Russia after USSR [ edit ] 
Main article: 1993 Russian constitutional crisis 
, This section is empty. You can help by adding to it. (September 2014) , Structure [ edit ] 
The constitution is divided into two sections.
Section One [ edit ] 
Fundamentals of the Constitutional System, Rights and Liberties of Man and Citizen, Federative system, President of the Russian Federation, Federal Assembly, Government of the Russian Federation, Judiciary, Local Self-Government, Constitutional Amendments and Revisions, Section Two [ edit ] 
Concluding and Transitional Provisions, Overview [ edit ] 
Especially on human rights and fundamental freedoms, the Constitution provides for human rights and freedom of citizen accoding to the universally recognised principles and norm of international law as well as the Constitution [ 3 ] and affirms that the listing in the Constitution of the Russian Federation of the fundamental rights and freedom shall not be interpreted as a rejection and derogation of other universally recognised human rights and freedom. [ 4 ] 
Presidency [ edit ] 
Main article: President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev takes the presidential oath with his hand resting on the Constitution, May 7, 2008 . 
, This section is empty. You can help by adding to it. (September 2014) , Executive branch [ edit ] 
Main article: Government of Russia 
, This section is empty. You can help by adding to it. (September 2014) , Legislative branch [ edit ] 
Main article: Federal Assembly of Russia 
, This section is empty. You can help by adding to it. (September 2014) , Judiciary [ edit ] 
Main article: Judiciary of Russia 
, This section is empty. You can help by adding to it. (September 2014) , Local government [ edit ] 
, This section is empty. You can help by adding to it. (September 2014) , See also [ edit ] 
Institute of State and Law, Law of the Russian Federation, Constitution of the Soviet Union, 2008 Amendments to the Constitution of Russia, Impeachment in Russia, Constitutional economics, Constitutionalism, . 
Notes [ edit ] 
^ Sergey Shakhray - The Voice of Russia on YouTube , ^ Constitution of Russia: nature, evolution, modernity 1.4.2National character. (Russian) , ^ Article 17 , ^ Article 55. 1 , References [ edit ] 
GAnenA, Levent (2002). Prospects for Constitutionalism in Post-Communist Countries . Kluwer Law International. ISBN90-411-1836-5. , Jeffries, Ian (1996). A Guide to the Economies in Transition . Routledge. ISBN0-415-13684-9. , Partlett, William. The Dangers of Popular Constitution-Making, Brooklyn Journal of International Law, Volume 38, 193-238 (2012). Available at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1924958., . 
External links [ edit ] 
, Wikisource has original text related to this article: Constitution of Russia , Wikimedia Commons has media related to Constitution of the Russian Federation ., Text of the Constitution in Russian a from the official website of the Government of the Russian Federation, Text of the Constitution in English - archived from an official website of the Government of the Russian Federation, The Russian Constitution, with the Russian text and unofficial translations to English, German, and French, Information about the Russian Constitution, . 
v , t , e , . Constitutions of Russia and the Soviet Union , Constitutions of Russia 1906, 1917, 1918, 1925, 1937, 1978, 1993 , . , Constitutions of the Soviet Union 1924, 1936, 1977, . , v , t , e , . Constitutions of Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , v , t , e , . Constitutions of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia , Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution , Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Constitution_of_Russia and oldid=632425108" Categories: Constitutions of Russia, 1993 in law, . Hidden categories: Articles with Russian-language external links, Use mdy dates from September 2012, Articles containing Russian-language text, Articles to be expanded from August 2012, All articles to be expanded, Articles to be expanded from September 2014, Articles with empty sections from September 2014, All articles with empty sections, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, DNDDDNNDD, Cymraeg, Deutsch, EspaAol, UOOOU, FranAais, Gaeilge, iei, Aslenska, Italiano, LatvieAu, Nederlands, aeaee, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, DDND NNDD, Suomi, Svenska, DDNDNND/tatarAa, DDNDNDNNDD, Tiang Viat, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 4 November 2014 at 15:07.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
