
Constitutional right - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Constitutional right 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . 
, The examples and perspective in this article deal primarily with the United States and do not represent a worldwide view of the subject . Please improve this article and discuss the issue on the talk page. (February 2012) , This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (August 2008) , This article includes a list of references, related reading or external links, but its sources remain unclear because it lacks inline citations . Please improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (November 2012) , A constitutional right is a legal right of its citizens (and possibly others within its jurisdiction) protected by a sovereignty's constitution.
Contents
1 United States 1.1 Federal constitution , 1.2 State constitutions , . , 2 Other nations , 3 See also , . 
United States [ edit ] 
Federal constitution [ edit ] 
The United States Constitution has several articles and amendments that establish constitutional rights.
The provisions providing for rights under the Bill of Rights were originally binding upon only the federal government. In time, most of these provisions became binding upon the states through selective incorporation into the due process clause of the 14th Amendment. When a provision is made binding on a state, a state can no longer restrict the rights guaranteed in that provision.
Examples of provisions made binding upon the states are the 6th Amendment's guarantee of a right to confrontation of witnesses, known as the Confrontation Clause, and the various provisions of the 1st Article, guaranteeing the freedoms of speech, the press, government and assembly.
For example, the Fifth Article protects the right to grand jury proceedings in federal criminal cases. However, because this right was not selectively incorporated into the due process clause of the 14th amendment, it is not binding upon the states. Therefore, persons involved in state criminal proceedings as a defendant have no federal constitutional right to grand jury proceedings. Whether an individual has a right to a grand jury becomes a question of state law.
State constitutions [ edit ] 
Each of the United States has its own governing constitution. State constitutions cannot reduce legal protections afforded by the federal charter, but they can provide additional protections. California v. Ramos , 463 U.S. 992, 1014, 103 S.Ct. 3446, 77 l.Ed.2d 1171 (1983). Even where the text of a state constitution matches verbatim that of the federal constitution, the state document may be held to provide more to the citizen. State constitutional rights can also include those entirely unaddressed in the federal constitution, such as the right to adequate education or the right to affordable housing.
Other nations [ edit ] 
, This section requires expansion. (February 2012) , See also: Human rights in Germany and Constitution of Japan 
Many other democratic nations have followed the US model in enshrining certain rights in their constitutions. Countries whose written constitutions include a bill of rights include Germany, India and Japan.
The United Kingdom, as it has an uncodified constitution, does not have a constitutional bill of rights, although the Human Rights Act 1998 fulfills a similar role.
The European Convention of Human Rights applies in those nations which are members of the Council of Europe. Persons who have experienced Convention-infringing human rights violations on the territory of ECHR-signatory nations can appeal to the European Court of Human Rights.
In authoritarian regimes there are generally few or no guaranteed inalienable rights; alternatively, such rights may exist but be unobserved in practice (as was generally the case in the former Francoist Spain).
See also [ edit ] 
Civil rights, Constitutional law, Constitutionalism, Human rights, Inalienable rights, Natural rights, Rule of law, . 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Constitutional rights ., Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Constitutional_right and oldid=632457723" Categories: Constitutional law, Rights, . Hidden categories: Articles with limited geographic scope from February 2012, USA-centric, Articles needing additional references from August 2008, All articles needing additional references, Articles lacking in-text citations from November 2012, All articles lacking in-text citations, Articles to be expanded from February 2012, All articles to be expanded, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
EspaAol, FranAais, . Edit links This page was last modified on 4 November 2014 at 19:38.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
