
Russian cuisine - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Russian cuisine 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2011) , This article contains wording that promotes the subject in a subjective manner without imparting real information . Please remove or replace such wording and instead of making proclamations about a subject's importance, use facts and attribution to demonstrate that importance. (August 2011) , This article contains weasel words: vague phrasing that often accompanies biased or unverifiable information . Such statements should be clarified or removed. (August 2011) , Russian soup 
Part of a series on the, Culture of Russia , History People Languages Traditions Mythology and folklore Mythology, Folklore, . , Cuisine Festivals Public holidays, . , Religion Art Architecture, . , Literature Music and performing arts Music, . , Media Television, Cinema, . , Sport Monuments World Heritage Sites, . , Symbols Flag, Coat of arms, Cultural icons, . , Russia portal, . , v , t , e , . , Russian cuisine (Russian: DNNNDDN DNNDN , tr. Russkaya kukhnya ) is a collection of the different cooking traditions of the Russian people. The cuisine is diverse, as Russia is by area the largest country in the world. [ 1 ] Russian cuisine derives its varied character from the vast and multi-cultural expanse of Russia. Moreover, it is necessary to divide Russian traditional cuisine and Soviet cuisine, which has its own peculiarity. Its foundations were laid by the peasant food of the rural population in an often harsh climate, with a combination of plentiful fish, poultry, caviar, mushrooms, berries, and honey. Crops of rye, wheat, barley and millet provided the ingredients for a plethora of breads, pancakes, cereals, beer and vodka. Soups and stews full of flavor are centered on seasonal or storable produce, fish and meats. This wholly native food remained the staple for the vast majority of Russians well into the 20th century.
Russia's great expansions of culture, influence, and interest during the 16tha18th centuries brought more refined foods and culinary techniques, as well as one of the most refined food countries in the world. It was during this period that smoked meats and fish, pastry cooking, salads and green vegetables, chocolate, ice cream, wines, and juice were imported from abroad. At least for the urban aristocracy and provincial gentry, this opened the doors for the creative integration of these new foodstuffs with traditional Russian dishes. The result is extremely varied in technique, seasoning, and combination.
Contents
1 Soups 1.1 Cold soups , 1.2 Hot soups , . , 2 Main dishes 2.1 Meat , 2.2 Fish , 2.3 Pies and pancakes , 2.4 Vegetables , . , 3 Beverages 3.1 Alcoholic , 3.2 Non-alcoholic , . , 4 Salads and other foods , 5 See also , 6 References , 7 External links , . 
Soups [ edit ] 
Soups have always played an important role in the Russian meal. The traditional staple of soups such as borscht (DDNN), shchi (ND), ukha (NNDI), rassolnik (NDNNDIDNDDD), solyanka (NDDNIDDD), botvinya (DDNDDIDNN), okroshka (DDNDINDD), and tyurya (NNINN) was enlarged in the 18th to 20th centuries by both European and Central Asian staples like clear soups, pureed soups, stews, and many others.
Russian soups can be divided into at least seven large groups:
Chilled soups based on kvass, such as tyurya, okroshka, and botvinya., Light soups and stews based on water and vegetables, such as swekolnik., Noodle soups with meat, mushrooms, or milk., Soups based on cabbage, most prominently shchi., Thick soups based on meat broth, with a salty-sour base like rassolnik and solyanka., Fish soups such as ukha., Grain- and vegetable-based soups., . 
Cold soups [ edit ] 
Okroshka 
Okroshka is a cold soup based on kvass or sour milk. Okroshka is also a salad. The main ingredients are two types of vegetables that can be mixed with cold boiled meat or fish in a 1:1 proportion . Thus vegetable, meat, poultry, and fish varieties of okroshka are made.
There are typically two types of vegetables in okroshka. The first must have a neutral taste, such as boiled potatoes, turnips, rutabagas, carrots, or fresh cucumbers. The second must be spicy, consisting of mainly green onion as well as other herbsagreens of dill, parsley, chervil, celery, or tarragon. Different meat and poultry can be used in the same soup. The most common ingredient is beef alone or with poultry. If it is made with fish, the best choice would be tench, European perch, pike-perch, cod, or other neutral-tasting fish.
The kvass most commonly used in cooking is white okroshka kvass, which is much more sour than drinking kvass. Spices used include mustard, black pepper and pickled cucumber (specifically, the liquid from the pickles), solely or in combination. For the final touch, boiled eggs and smetana (similar to crAme fraAche) are added.
For sour milk based okroshka, well shaken up natural sour milk(often with the addition of seed oil) is used with the addition of pure water and ground garlic. Sometimes manufactured kefir is used instead of natural sour milk for time saving reasons, though some say it detracts from the original taste of okroshka.
Tyurya is very similar to okroshka, the main difference being that instead of vegetables, bread is soaked in kvass. It is was commonly consumed during rough times (the Russian Revolution, World War I, World War II) and by poor peasants. Also, due to its simplicity, it was very common as a meal during religious fasting.
Botvinya is another type of cold soup. The name of the soup comes from the Russian word botva , which means "leafy tops of root vegetables", and, true to its name, it is made with the leafy tops of young beets, sorrel, scallions, dill, cucumbers, and two types of kvass. Mustard, garlic, and horseradish are then added for flavor. The vegetables are rubbed through a sieve and kvass is poured over.
Hot soups [ edit ] 
Shchi 
Shchi (cabbage soup) had been the predominant first course in Russian cuisine for over a thousand years. Although tastes have changed, it steadily made its way through several epochs. Shchi knew no social class boundaries, and even if the rich had richer ingredients and the poor made it solely of cabbage and onions, all these "poor" and "rich" variations were cooked in the same tradition. The unique taste of this cabbage soup was from the fact that after cooking it was left to draw (stew) in a Russian stove. The "Spirit of shchi" was inseparable from a Russian izba (log hut). Many Russian proverbs are connected to this soup, such as Shchi da kasha pishcha nasha (Russian: DD DD DDND a DDND DDND , "Shchi and porridge are our staples"). It can be eaten regularly, and at any time of the year.
The richer variant of shchi includes several ingredients, but the first and last components are a must:
Cabbage., Meat (very rarely fish or mushrooms)., Carrots, basil or parsley roots., Spicy herbs (onions, celery, dill, garlic, pepper, bay leaf)., Sour components (smetana, apples, sauerkraut, pickle water)., When this soup is served, smetana is added. It is eaten with rye bread. During much of the year when the Orthodox Christian Church prescribes abstinence from meat and dairy, a vegan version of shchi is made. "Kislye" (sour) schi are made from pickled cabbage (sauerkraut), "serye" (grey) schi from the green outer leaves of the cabbage head. "Zelyonye" (green) schi are made from sorrel leaves, not cabbage, and used to be a popular summer soup.
Opekannaya ukha (Russian: DDDDDDDDN NND ) made from pike perch 
Ukha is a warm watery fish dish, however calling it a fish soup would not be absolutely correct. "Ukha" as a name for fish broth was established only in the late 17th to early 18th centuries. In earlier times this name was first given to thick meat broths, and then later chicken. Beginning from the 15th century, fish was more and more often used to prepare ukha, thus creating a dish that had a distinctive taste among soups.
A minimum of vegetables is added in preparation, and in classical cooking ukha was simply a rich fish broth served to accompany fish pies (rasstegai, kuliebiaka, etc.). These days it is more often a fish soup, cooked with potatoes and other vegetables. A wide variety of freshwater fish is traditionally used.
Rassolnik is a hot soup in a salty-sour cucumber base. This dish formed in Russian cuisine quite lateaonly in the 19th century. About this time the name rassolnik was attached to it, originating from the Russian word rassol which means "brine" (pickle water). Pickle water was known to be used as base for soups from the 15th century at the latest. Its concentration and ratio with other liquids and soup components gave birth to different soups: solyanka, shchi, and of course rassolnik. The latest are moderately sour-salty soups on pickled cucumber base. Some are vegetarian, but more often with products like veal or beef kidneys or all poultry giblets (stomach, liver, heart, neck, feet). For best taste there has to be a balance between the sour part and neutral absorbers (cereals, potatoes, root vegetables). Typical rassolnik is based on kidneys, brine (and pickles), vegetables and barley.
Kal'ya was a very common dish first served in the 16tha17th centuries. Subsequently it almost completely disappeared from Russian cuisine. Often it was incorrectly called "fish rassolnik". The cooking technique is mostly the same as of ukha, but to the broth were added pickled cucumbers, pickle water, lemons and lemon juice, either separately or all together. The main characteristic of kal'ya is that only fat, rich fish was used; sometimes caviar was added along with the fish. More spices are added, and the soup turns out more piquant and thicker than ukha. Formerly kal'ya was considered a festivity dish.
Solyanka 
Solyanka is a thick, piquant soup that combines components from shchi (cabbage, smetana) and rassolnik (pickle water and cucumbers), spices such as olives, capers, tomatoes, lemons, lemon juice, kvass, salted and pickled mushrooms make up a considerably strong sour-salty base of the soup. Solyanka is much thicker than other soups, about 1/3 less liquid ratio. Three types are distinguished: meat, fish, and simple solyanka. The first two are cooked on strong meat or fish broths, and the last on mushroom or vegetable broth. All the broths are mixed with cucumber pickle water.
Lapsha (noodle soup) was adopted by Russians from Tatars, and after some transformation became widespread in Russia. It comes in three variations: chicken, mushroom, and milk. Cooking all three is simple, including preparation of noodles, cooking of corresponding broth, and boiling of noodles in broth. Noodles are based on the same wheat flour or buckwheat/wheat flour mix. Mixed flour noodles go better with mushroom or milk broth.
Main dishes [ edit ] 
Further information: List of Russian dishes 
Meat [ edit ] 
Pelmeni Buckwheat porridge with milk Kholodets Kotlety 
In traditional Russian cuisine three basic variations of meat dishes can be highlighted:
a large boiled piece of meat cooked in a soup or porridge, and then used as second course or served cold (particularly in jellied stockasee Kholodets' below), offal dishes (liver, tripe, etc.), baked in pots together with cereals;, whole fowl dishes or parts of fowl (legs or breasts), or a large piece of meat (rump) baked on a baking tray in an oven, so-called "zharkoye" (from the word "zhar"(DDN) meaning "heat"), . 
The 16th century "Domostroi" aimed at affluent households also mentions sausage-making, spit-roasted meats, stews and many other meat dishes.
As a garnish to meat dishes in the past the most common were porridges and cereals, in which the meat was boiled, later on boiled or rather steamed and baked root vegetables (turnips, carrots) as well as mushrooms; additionally the meat, without taking account its type, was garnished with pickled productsapickled cabbage, sour and "soaked" (marinated) apples (mochoniye yabloki), soaked cranberries, "vzvar"s. Pan juices, alone or mixed with sour cream or melted butter is used as gravy to pour on garnishing vegetables and porridges. Meat sauces i.e. gravies based on flour, butter, eggs and milk, are not common for traditional Russian cuisine.
Pelmeni (DDDNDDDD in Russian, singular pelmen, DDDNDDDN; DNDNDDDN in Belarusian) are a traditional Eastern European (mainly Russian) dish usually made with minced meat filling, wrapped in thin dough (made out of flour and eggs, sometimes with milk or water added). For filling, pork, lamb, beef, or any other kind of meat can be used; mixing several kinds is popular. The traditional Ural recipe requires the filling be made with 45f beef, 35f lamb, and 20f pork. Traditionally, various spices, such as pepper, onions, and garlic, are mixed into the filling.
Russians seem to have learned to make pelmeni from Finnic and Tatar peoples of the Taiga, the Urals and Siberia. The word means "ear-shaped bread" in Finnic languages such as Udmurt and Komi. In Siberia they were made in large quantities and stored safely frozen outside for several winter months. In mainland Russia, the term "Siberian Pel'meni" refers to pel'meni made with a mix of meats (whether the 45/35/20 mix mentioned above, or another ratio), rather than a single meat. By the late 19th century, they became a staple throughout urban European Russia. They are prepared immediately before eating by boiling in water until they float, and then 2a5 minutes more. The resulting dish is served with butter and/or sour cream (mustard, horseradish, and vinegar are popular as well). Some recipes suggest frying pelmeni after boiling until they turn golden brown.
Pelmeni belong to the family of dumplings. Akin to vareniki: Ukrainian variety of dumplings with filling made of mashed potatoes, farmer's cheese, or cherries, to mention the most popular three. They are not dissimilar to Chinese potstickers, Tibetan mo-mo and Italian ravioli, as well as the Manti of the Kazakh and Kyrgyz cultures. The main difference between pelmeni and other kinds of dumplings is in their shape and size a the typical pelmen' is roughly spherical and is about 2 to 3cm in diameter, whereas most other types of dumplings are usually elongated and much larger.
The process of making pelmeni is somewhat labor-intensive, but a device known as "pelmennitsa" greatly speeds up the task. It consists of a typically round aluminum plate with a matrix of holes surrounded by ridges. A sheet of dough is placed over the matrix, filling is scooped into each "cell", and the dough sags under the weight of the filling, forming the body of the dumpling. Another sheet of dough is placed on top, and a wooden roller is rolled over the top, pressing the dough layers together, cutting the dumplings apart by the ridges, and forcing the dumplings to fall through the holes. Using a pelmennitsa, the chef can quickly manufacture batches of dumplings at a time.
Various minced meat dishes were adopted from other cuisines and became popular only in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries; for traditional Russian cuisine they are not typical.
Kholodets (or Studen') : Jellied chopped pieces of pork or veal meat with some spices added (pepper, parsley, garlic, bay leaf) and minor amounts of vegetables (carrots, onions). The meat is boiled in large pieces for long periods of time, then chopped, boiled a few times again and finally chilled for 3a4 hours (hence the name) forming a jelly mass, though gelatine is not used because calves' feet, pigs' heads and other such offal is gelatinous enough on its own. It is served with horseradish, mustard, or ground garlic with smetana.
Kotlety (minced cutlets, meatballs), a Western European dish popular in modern Russian households, are small pan-fried meat balls, not dissimilar from Salisbury steak and other such dishes. Made primarily from pork and beef (sometimes also from chicken or fish), they are easily made and require little time. Ground beef, pork, onions and bread are put in a bowl and mixed thoroughly until it becomes relatively consistent. Once this effect is achieved, balls are formed and then put into a hot frying pan to cook.
Shashlyk 
Shashlyk is a form of Shish kebab (marinated meat grilled on a skewer) popular in former Soviet Union countries, notably in Georgia, Russia, Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Uzbekistan. It often features alternating slices of meat and onions. Even though the word "shashlyk" was apparently borrowed from the Crimean Tatars by the Cossacks as early as the 16th century, kebabs did not reach Moscow until the late 19th century, according to Vladimir Gilyarovsky's "Moscow and Moscovites". From then on, their popularity spread rapidly; by the 1910s they were a staple in St Petersburg restaurants and by the 1920s they were already a pervasive street food all over urban Russia. Shashlik is also used in Russia as a food to be cooked in outdoor environment, similarly to barbecue in English-speaking countries.
Fish [ edit ] 
Fish was important in pre-revolutionary cuisine, especially on Russian Orthodox fast days when meat was forbidden, similar to the Catholic custom of eating fish instead of meat on Fridays. Strictly freshwater fish such as carp and sudak (Sander lucioperca, Zander) were commonly eaten in inland areas, as well as anadromous sturgeon and in northern areas salmon, pike and trout. A greater variety of fishaincluding saltwater speciesawere preserved by salting, pickling or smoking and consumed as "zakuski" (hors d'oeuvres).
Pies and pancakes [ edit ] 
Pirozhki made with onion, mushroom, meat and rice stuffing 
Pirozhki (singular: pirozhok; diminutive of "pirog" [pie]) are small stuffed buns (pies) made of either yeast dough or short pastry. They are filled with one of many different fillings and are either baked (the ancient Slavic method) or shallow-fried (known as "priazhenie", this method was borrowed from the Tatars in the 16th century). One feature of pirozhki that sets them apart from, for example, English pies is that the fillings used are almost invariably fully cooked. The use of chopped hard-boiled eggs in fillings is another interesting feature. Six typical fillings for traditional pirozhki are:
Chopped boiled meat mixed with sautAed onions, Rice and boiled eggs with dill, Fish sautAed with onions and mixed with hard-boiled chopped eggs and rice, Mashed potatoes mixed with dill and green onion, SautAed cabbage, SautAed mushrooms with onions and sometimes carrots, Syrniki with raisins 
Blini are thin pancakes made with yeasted batter which are often served in connection with a religious rite or festival. The word "blin" (singular of blini) comes from Old Slavic "mlin", which means "to mill". Blins had a somewhat ritual significance for early Slavic peoples in pre-Christian times since they were a symbol of the sun, due to their round form. They were traditionally prepared at the end of the winter to honor the rebirth of the new sun during Maslenitsa (DDNDDDDND, Butter Week; also known as Pancake Week). This tradition was adopted by the Orthodox Church and is carried on to the present day, as the last week of dairy and egg products before Lent. Bliny are still often served at wakes, to commemorate the recently deceased. Blini can be made from wheat, buckwheat, or other grains, although wheat blini are most popular in Russia. They may be topped with butter, smetana (sour cream), fruit preserves or caviar. The word "blin" is also often used as a soft curse word, expressing frustration.
Syrniki are fried curd fritters, garnished with sour cream, jam, honey, and/or apple sauce.
Vatrushka is a kind of cake with a ring of dough and tvorog (cottage cheese) in the middle, often with raisins or bits of fruit, from about five inches to two and a half feet in diameter.
Vegetables [ edit ] 
Cabbage, potatoes, and cold tolerant greens are common in Russian and other Eastern European cuisines. Pickling cabbage (sauerkraut), cucumbers, tomatoes and other vegetables in brine is used to preserve vegetables for winter use. Pickled apples and some other fruit also used to be widely popular. These are sources of vitamins during periods when fresh fruit and vegetables are traditionally not available.
Beverages [ edit ] 
Many traditional drinks are indigenous to Russia and are not present in other national cuisines. The most notable of these are vodka, sbiten', kvass, medovukha and mors. Many of them are no longer common and have been replaced by drinks originating in Europe. Nonetheless, these beverages were formerly drunk as a compliment to meat and poultry dishes, sweet porridge, and dessert. Of particular note is sbiten, an immensely popular medieval drink which has since been replaced by tea as the Russian mainstay beverage.
Alcoholic [ edit ] 
A bottle of Medovukha, an alcoholic drink similar to mead. Russian vodkas in various bottles and cups 
Of Russia's alcoholic beverages, perhaps the most ancient is Medovukha, a sweet, low-alcohol drink, made with fermented-honey with the addition of various spices. A stronger honey-based beverage, stavlenniy myod , also exists in Russia and is broadly equivalent to Scandinavian mead; it is typically made with the admixture of berry juices.
Vodka is the most well-known of Russia's alcoholic products and is produced, with some variation, throughout the country. Vodka can be either grain or potato based and is frequently flavored with a great variety of ingredients ranging from hot-pepper and horseradish to fruits and berries.
Beer has been manufactured in Russia since at the very least the 9th century. Its popularity was for many centuries concentrated in the Lands of Novgorod. Beer continued to be made throughout Russian history, but real growth came in the 18th century when many breweries were founded in order to supply the newly modernized and expanded imperial army and fleet. A real explosion in the popularity of beer came in the last decades of the Soviet Era and has continued into the present day, with Russia now ranking as the fourth largest producer in the world.
Wine is manufactured in the southern regions in the country, but lags far behind other alcoholic beverages in popularity. The wine industry, which was somewhat notable in imperial times, is slowly expanding, but most Russians that drink wine tend to prefer imported foreign varieties [ citation needed ] , especially sweet varieties produced in the countries of the former USSR and little known in the outside world.
Non-alcoholic [ edit ] 
Kvass is a bread-based drink and a key ingredient in many soups. 
Kvass is an ancient and still widely popular bread-based drink. The basic method of preparing kvass includes water, flour and liquid malt; these ingredients are used to make a dough that is subjected to fermentation. This results in a beverage with very low alcohol content. Commercial kvas is often around 0.5lcohol. The fermented liquid, referred to as "zator, " is diluted with water and mixed with yeast, sugar, and aromatic additives. This final mixture is allowed to brew for several days. Flavor additives may include fruit and berry juices (cherry, raspberry, lemon, etc.), as well as ginger and mint.
Sbiten, another non-alcoholic drink, is made of honey, water, fruit juices, and spices. Sbiten was once the most popular non-alcoholic beverage in the country, but in the last few centuries it has been superseded and largely replaced by tea and coffee.
Another popular drink is mors, which is made of sweetened fruit juices diluted with water.
Tea is by far the most common drink in almost all parts of Russia. First introduced from China in the 17th century, its popularity has since spread throughout the country. Black tea has always been the dominant variety, but after the Russian acquisition of Central Asia, awareness of and interest in green tea began to increase slowly. Today Russia remains one of the largest tea consumers in the world. Russian Caravan is perhaps the most well known type of Russian tea around the world.
Until the Sino-Soviet split, tea was brought mostly in China. Now, Russia imports most of its tea from India and Sri Lanka, with Darjeeling being the most prized variety. Domestic cultivation exists in the southern regions of the country (mostly in Krasnodar Krai), but local supply is very limited compared to national consumption.
Coffee is also popular but has never caught up to tea in popularity. Peter the Great is credited with introducing coffee to Russia, with the drink becoming steadily more pervasive since that time. Coffee is commonly made either using the Turkish or common European methods.
Salads and other foods [ edit ] 
Dressed Herring Khrenovina Sauce, a traditional Siberian sauce, made of tomatoes, garlic and horseradish, Novokuznetsk, Russia Olivier salad (also known as Russian salad), a mayonnaise-based potato salad distinguished by its diced texture and the contrasting flavors of pickles, hard-boiled eggs, and peas., Sel'd' pod shuboy (or Shuba , from Russian NNDD (fur coat)), also known as "dressed herring", is chopped salted herring under a "coat" of shredded cooked beet, sometimes with a layer of egg or other vegetables [ 2 ] , Vinegret (from French vinaigrette ), a salad made of boiled beets, potatoes, carrots, pickles, onions, sauerkraut, and sometimes peas or white beans., Varenye, a dessert and condiment made from cooking berries. It is similar to jam except the fruit is not macerated and the consistency is more akin to fruit within syrup. It is used as a topping for crepes and syrniki and as a sweetener for tea. It is also eaten on its own as a sweet. [ 3 ] , . 
See also [ edit ] 
, Russia portal, Food portal, A Gift to Young Housewives , a well-known 19th-century Russian cookbook, List of Russian dishes, List of Russian restaurants, Pirog, Soviet cuisine, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ The World Factbook - Country Comparison by Area , ^ Russian Layered Herring Salad - Seld' pod shuboy , ^ http://www.telegraph.co.uk/sponsored/rbth/5767412/Russian-cuisine-Preserve-the-summer-with-fruity-varenye.html , External links [ edit ] 
, Wikibooks Cookbook has a recipe/module on Russian cuisine , . , Wikimedia Commons has media related to Cuisine of Russia ., Modern Russian cuisine recipes with step by step photos, Blog about Russian cuisine, Russian cuisine restaurants outside of Russia, Articles about Russian cuisine with recipes, The best New Year's recipes from Russia Irakli Iosebashvili, December, 16 2009, Russia Beyond the Headlines, Food shopping in Russia, . 
v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine , Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . European cuisine , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , v , t , e , . Asian cuisine , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, Chinese, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia , Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . Cuisine , Regional African, Americas, Asian, Balkan, Bengal, Caribbean, Caucasian, Central Asian, East African, European, Global, Latin American, Mediterranean, Middle Eastern Levantine, . , North African, South Asian, West African, Pacific Island, . , National Afghan, Albanian, Algerian, American American Chinese cuisine, . , Angolan, Argentine, Armenian, Australian, Austrian, Azerbaijani, Bahraini, Bangladeshi, Belarusian, Belgian, Belizean, Beninese, Bhutanese, Bolivian, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswanan, Brazilian, British Cornish, English, Scottish, Welsh, . , Bulgarian, BurkinabA, Burmese, Cambodian, Cameroonian, Canadian Canadian Chinese cuisine, . , Chadian, Chilean, Chinese, Colombian, Congolese, Croatian, Cuban, Cypriot, Czech, Danish, Djiboutian, Dutch, Ecuadorian, Egyptian, Emirati, Equatorial Guinean, Eritrean, Estonian, Ethiopian, Filipino, Finnish, French Occitan, . , Georgian, German, Ghanaian, Greek, Guatemalan, Haitian, Honduran, Hong Kong, Hungarian, Icelandic, Indian, Indonesian, Iranian, Iraqi, Irish, Israeli, Italian Sicilian, . , Ivorian (CAte d'Ivoire), Jamaican, Japanese, Jordanian, Kazakh, Kenyan, Korean, Kosovan, Kuwaiti, Kyrgyz, Lao, Latvian, Lebanese, Libyan, Liechtensteiner, Lithuanian, Luxembourg, Macau, Macedonian, Malagasy, Malaysian, Maltese, Mexican, Moldovan, Mongolian, Moroccan, Nepalese, New Zealand, Nigerian, Nigerien, Norwegian, Omani, Pakistani, Palestinian, Panamanian, Peruvian, Polish, Portuguese, Qatari, Romanian, Russian , Salvadoran, Saudi Arabian, Serbian, Singaporean, Slovak, Slovenian, Somali, South African, Spanish Andalusian, Asturian, Basque, Catalan, Galician, . , Sri Lankan, Sudanese, Swazi, Swedish, Swiss, Syrian, Taiwanese, Tajik, Thai, Tunisian, Turkish, Trinidadian and Tobagonian, Ukrainian, Uruguayan, Uzbek, Venezuelan, Vietnamese, Yemeni, . , Ethnic and religious Ainu, Akan, Arab, Assyrian, Balochi, Berber, Buddhist, Cajun, Circassian, Chinese Islamic, Crimean Tatar, Inuit, Italian American, Jewish Sephardic, Mizrahi, Bukharan, Jewish Syrian, . , Kurdish, Louisiana Creole, Maharashtrian, Mordovian, Native American, Parsi, Pashtun, Pennsylvania Dutch, Peranakan, Punjabi, Sami, Sindhi, Tatar, Yamal, . , Historical Ancient Egyptian, Ancient Greek, Ancient Israelite, Ancient Roman, Aztec, Byzantine, Early modern European, Historical Chinese, Historical South Asian, History of seafood, History of vegetarianism, Inca, Mayan, Medieval, Ottoman, Peasant foods, Soviet, . , Styles Cuisine classique, Fast food, Fusion, Haute, Molecular gastronomy, Nouvelle, Note by Note, . , Cooking methods Baking, Boiling, Frying, Grilling, Roasting, SautAing, Smoking, Steaming, Stewing, Stir frying, . , Types of food Confectionery, Condiment, Dairy products, Flour Dough, Batter, . , Fruit Berry, Nut, . , Herbs/ Spices, Meat, Seafood Fish, . , Seeds, Vegetable, . , Carbohydrate staples Barley, Bread, Breadfruit, Buckwheat, Cassava, Couscous, Maize, Millet, Noodle, Oat, Pasta, Plantain, Potato, Pulses, Quinoa, Rice, Rye, Sago, Sorghum, Sweet potato, Taro, Teff, Wheat, Yam, . , Types of dish Aspic, Biryani, Biscuit/ Cookie, Cake, CanapA, Casserole, Cold cut, Curry, Cutlet, Dip, Dumpling, Fritter, Ice cream, Kebab, Meatball, Omelette, Pancake, Pastry, Pie, Pilaf, Pizza, Porridge, Pottage, Pudding, Salad, Sandwich Open, . , Sauce, Soup, Steak, Stew, Sushi, Tart, . , Technical Cook, Chef, Culinary art, Kitchen, Eating utensils, Food preparation utensils, Serving utensils, Techniques, Weights and measures, . , List articles List of African cuisines, List of Asian cuisines, List of cuisines of the Americas, List of European cuisines, List of Oceanian cuisines, . , See also National dish, Comfort food, Famine food, Gastronomy, Gourmet, Food industry, List of restaurant terminology, Meal Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner, Tea, Supper, . , . , Food portal , Drink portal , Category , Media , Wikibooks:Cookbook , WikiProject Food and drink , . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Russian_cuisine and oldid=628816967" Categories: Russian cuisine, . Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from April 2011, All articles needing additional references, Articles with peacock terms from August 2011, All articles with peacock terms, Articles with weasel words from August 2011, Articles containing Russian-language text, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from February 2012, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, Region topic template using suffix, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, AzErbaycanca, DDDDNNNDDN, DNDDDNNDD, AeAtina, Deutsch, EspaAol, Esperanto, FranAais, iei, Hrvatski, Bahasa Indonesia, Aslenska, Italiano, Basa Jawa, KurdA, LAtzebuergesch, LietuviA, Magyar, aeaee, PortuguAs, DNNNDDD, Suomi, Svenska, DDNDNDNNDD, Tiang Viat, . Edit links This page was last modified on 8 October 2014 at 17:52.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
