
Politics of Denmark - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of Denmark 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search Christiansborg Palace is home to the executive, judicial and legislative branches of the Danish government. 
Denmark , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Denmark , Constitution Monarchy Monarch Queen Margrethe II , Council of State, . , Realm Greenland, Faroe Islands, . , Executive Prime Minister (list) Helle Thorning-Schmidt , Cabinet Current cabinet , . , Legislature Folketing (parliament) Speaker: Mogens Lykketoft , . , Judiciary Courts Supreme Court , . , Elections Recent elections Parliamentary: 2011, 2007, 2005, . , Political parties, . , Administrative divisions Regions, Municipalities, . , Foreign relations Denmark and the EU, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The politics of Denmark function within a framework of a parliamentary, representative democracy. The Kingdom of Denmark is a constitutional monarchy, in which the Monarch, currently Queen Margrethe II, is head of state. Executive power is exercised by the Cabinet government ( regeringen ), presided over by the Prime Minister ( statsminister ) who is first among equals. Legislative power is vested in both the executive and the national parliament ( Folketinget ). The Judiciary is independent, officially appointed by the monarch and employed until retirement.
Denmark has a multi-party system, with two or three strong parties, and four or five other significant parties. No single party has held an absolute majority in the Folketing since the beginning of the 20th century, [ 1 ] and no single party has formed a government alone since 1982. Since only four post-war coalition governments have enjoyed a majority, government bills rarely become law without negotiations and compromise with both supporting and opposition parties. Hence the Folketing tends to be more powerful than legislatures in other EU countries. The Constitution does not grant the judiciary power of judicial review of legislation, however the courts have asserted this power with the consent of the other branches of government. Since there are no constitutional or administrative courts, the Supreme Court deals with a constitutional dimension.
On many issues the political parties tend to opt in for a co-operation, and the Danish state welfare model receives a broad parliamentary support. This ensures a focus on public-sector efficiency as well as devolved responsibilities of local government on regional and municipal levels.
The degree of transparency and accountability is reflected in the public's high level of satisfaction with the political institutions, while Denmark is also regularly considered one of the least corrupt countries in the world by international organizations. [ 2 ] 
Contents
1 Monarchy , 2 Political parties , 3 Executive 3.1 Head of government , 3.2 Cabinet government , 3.3 Government departments , 3.4 Tradition of minority governments , . , 4 Legislature 4.1 History , 4.2 Composition , 4.3 Proportional representation and elections , . , 5 Judicial system , 6 Ombudsmanden , 7 Domestic and foreign relations 7.1 Danish Realm , 7.2 Foreign policy , . , 8 See also , 9 Notes , . 
Monarchy [ edit ] 
Queen Margrethe II 
Margrethe II (born 16 April 1940) has ruled as Queen Regnant and head of state since 14 January 1972. [ 3 ] In accordance with the Danish Constitution the Danish Monarch, as head of state, is the theoretical source of all executive and legislative power. [ 4 ] However, since the introduction of parliamentary sovereignty in 1901, a de facto separation of powers has been in effect. [ 5 ] 
The text of the Danish constitution dates back to 1849. Therefore it has been interpreted by jurists to suit modern conditions. In a formal sense, the Monarch retains the ability to deny giving a bill royal assent. In order for a bill to become law, a royal signature, as well as a countersignature by a government minister, is required. [ 4 ] The Monarch also chooses and dismisses the Prime Minister, although in modern times a dismissal would cause a constitutional crisis. On 28 March 1920, King Christian X was the last Monarch to exercise the power of dismissal, sparking the 1920 Easter Crisis. All royal powers called Royal Prerogative, such as patronage to appoint ministers and the ability to declare war and make peace, are exercised by the Prime Minister and the Cabinet, with the formal consent of the Queen. When a new government is to be formed, the Monarch calls the party leaders to a conference of deliberation (known as a "dronningerunde"), where the latter advise the Monarch. On the basis of the advice the Monarch then appoints the party leader who commands a majority of recommendation to lead negotiations for forming a new government. [ 4 ] 
According to the principles of constitutional monarchy, today the Monarch has an essentially ceremonial role, restricted in his or her exercise of power by the convention of parliamentary democracy and the separation of powers. However, the monarch does continue to exercise three formal rights: the right to be consulted; the right to advise; and the right to warn. Pursuant to these ideals, both the Prime Minister and the Cabinet attend the regular meeting of the Council of State. [ 6 ] 
Political parties [ edit ] 
See also: List of political parties in Denmark 
Denmark has a multiparty system with currently eight parties represented in parliament. The four oldest and in history most influential parties are the Conservative People's Party, the Social Democrats, Venstre (a conservative-liberal party) and the Danish Social Liberal Party. However, demographics have been in favour of younger parties (such as the nationalist far-right Danish People's Party and the far-left Red-Green Alliance), which has led to a constant process of policy development and gradual renewal amongst, but not limited to, the four old parties. [ clarification needed ] 
None of the parties have exactly the same organization. It is however common for a party to have: An annual convention which approves manifestos and elects party chairmen; a board of leaders; an assembly of representatives as well as a number of local branches with their own organization. In most cases the party members in parliament form their own group with autonomy to develop and promote party politics in parliament and between elections.
Executive [ edit ] 
, This section needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (August 2012) , The Government performs the executive functions of the Kingdom. The affairs of Government are decided by the Cabinet, headed by the Prime Minister. The Cabinet and the Prime Minister are responsible for their actions to the Folketing (the parliamentary system).
Members of the Cabinet are even given the formal title of "minister" and each hold a different portfolio of government duties. The day to day role of the cabinet members is to serve as head of one or more segments of the national bureaucracy, as head of the civil servants to which all employees in that department report.
Head of government [ edit ] 
Main article: Prime Minister of Denmark 
Enjoying the status of primus inter pares , the Prime Minister is head of the Danish government (as taken to mean the Cabinet). The Minister and members of the Cabinet are appointed by the Crown on basis of the party composition in the Folketing. No vote of confidence is necessary to begin the government after election. If the Folketing expresses its lack of confidence in the Prime Minister, the entire cabinet must step down, unless a new parliamentary election is called.
Lars LAkke Rasmussen was the prime minister from April 2009 until September 2011. He headed a right-wing government coalition consisting of Venstre and the Conservatives, with parliamentary support from the Danish People's Party. Following the September 2011 election the right wing lost by a small margin to the opposing left-wing coalition, led by Helle Thorning-Schmidt who on 3 October 2011 formed a new Cabinet government consisting of the Social Democrats, the Danish Social Liberal Party and the Socialist People's Party. The government has parliamentary support from the Red-Green Alliance.
Cabinet government [ edit ] 
Further information: Cabinet of Denmark and Current cabinet The cabinet of Helle Thorning-Schmidt. 
According to section 14 of the constitution, the king sets the number of ministers and the distribution of cases between them. The Monarch formally appoints and dismisses ministers, including the Prime Minister. [ 7 ] That means that the number of cabinet positions and the organisation of the state administration into agencies are set by law, but subject to change without notice. A coalition of many parties usually means a large cabinet and many ministries, while a small coalition or the rare one party government means fewer, larger ministries.
As of October 3, 2011 in the wake of the parliamentary elections, the cabinet has 23 members including the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister leads the work of the Cabinet as well as being minister for constitutional affairs, overseas territories and for the affairs of the press.
The 23 cabinet members hold different portfolios of duties, including but not limited to the day-to-day role as head of one or more segments of the government departments.
Since it is not a requirement that Cabinet Ministers be elected members of the Folketing, it is likewise not required for them to resign a seat in parliament while holding a position in the cabinet.
Government departments [ edit ] 
The Danish executive consists of a number of government departments known as Ministries. These departments are led by a cabinet member and known as Minister for the relevant department or portfolio. In theory all Ministers are equal and may not command or be commanded by a fellow minister. Constitutional practice does however dictate, that the Prime Minister is primus inter pares , first among equals. Unlike many other countries, Denmark has no tradition of employing junior Ministers.
A department acts as the secretariat to the Minister. Its functions comprises overall planning, development and strategic guidance on the entire area of responsibility of the Minister. The Ministers' decisions are carried out by the permanent and politically neutral civil service within the department. Unlike some democracies, senior civil servants remain in post upon a change of Government. The head of the department civil servants is the Permanent Secretary. In fact, the majority of civil servants work in executive agencies that are separate operational organizations reporting to the Minister. The Minister also has his own private secretary and communications personnel. Unlike normal civil servants, the communications staff is partisan and do not remain in their posts upon changes of Government.
Portfolio Minister Took office Left office Party Ref Minister for Commerce and Growth, Annette Vilhelmsen , 16 October 2011, Incumbent, Socialist People's, Minister for the City, Housing and Rural Affairs, Carsten Hansen , 3 October 2011, Incumbent, Social Democrats, Minister for Employment, Mette Frederiksen , 3 October 2011, Incumbent, Social Democrats, Minister for Children and Education, Christine Antorini , 3 October 2011, Incumbent, Social Democrats, Minister for Integration and Social Affairs, Karen HAkkerup , 3 October 2011, Incumbent, Social Democrats, Minister for Development Cooperation, Christian Friis Bach , 3 October 2011, Incumbent, Social Liberals, Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, Mette Gjerskov , 3 October 2011, Incumbent, Social Democrats, Minister for Trade and Investment, Pia Olsen Dyhr , 3 October 2011, Incumbent, Socialist People's, Minister for Climate and Energy, Martin Lidegaard , 3 October 2011, Incumbent, Social Liberals, Minister for Transport, Henrik Dam Kristensen , 3 October 2011, Incumbent, Social Democrats, Minister for Health and Prevention, Astrid Krag , 3 October 2011, Incumbent, Socialist People's, Minister for European Affairs, Nicolai Wammen , 3 October 2011, Incumbent, Social Democrats, Minister for the Environment, Ida Auken , 3 October 2011, Incumbent, Socialist People's, Minister for Equality, Church and Nordic Cooperation, Manu Sareen , 3 October 2011, Incumbent, Social Liberals, Tradition of minority governments [ edit ] 
As known in other parliamentary systems of government, the executive (i.e. the Cabinet) is accountable to the parliament (i.e. the Folketing). Under the Danish constitution, no government may remain in office with a majority against it. This is called negative parliamentarianism, as opposed to the principle of positive parliamentarianismaas in Germany and some other parliamentary systemsaa government needs to achieve a majority through a vote of investiture in parliament. [ citation needed ] It is due to the principle of negative parliamentarianism and its proportional representation system that Denmark has a long tradition of minority governments. Nevertheless, minority governments in Denmark sometimes have strong parliamentary majorities with the help of one or more supporting parties. [ 1 ] The previous government of Venstre and Conservatives thus had stable parliamentary support from the Danish People's Party even though this party was not a member of the government.
Danish politics are based upon consensus. [ 1 ] The current coalition government between the Social Democrats, the Danish Social Liberal Party and the Socialist People's Party is a minority government, based on the support of the Red-Green Alliance (Enhedslisten) and a handful of independent members of parliament. Because of this tradition it has historically been common practice to cooperate among the two sides in the parliament.
Legislature [ edit ] 
Main article: Folketing The Folkting chamber inside Christiansborg Palace. 
The Folketing performs the legislative functions of the Kingdom. As a parliament, it is at the centre of the political system in Denmark, and is the supreme and ultimate legislative body, operating within the confines of the constitution. The Prime Minister is drawn from parliament through the application of the Danish parliamentary principle (a majority must not exist in opposition to the government), and this process is also generally the case for the government also. The government is answerable to parliament through the principle of parliamentary control (question hour, general debates and the passing of resolutions or motions). Ministers can be questioned by members of Parliament regarding specific government policy matters.
General debates on broader issues of government policy may also be held in parliament and may also be followed by a motion of "no-confidence". The opposition rarely requests motions of no-confidence, as the government is usually certain of its majority; however, government policy is often discussed in the plenary assembly of Parliament. Since 1953, the year that marked the reform of the Danish constitution, parliament has been unicameral.
History [ edit ] 
With the implementation of the first democratic constitution in 1849, Denmark's legislature was constituted as a bicameral parliament, or Rigsdag , composed of Folketinget (a lower house of commoners) and Landstinget (an upper house containing lords, landowners and industrialists). [ 8 ] With the constitutional reform of 1953 the Landstinget was abolished, leaving only Folketinget .
Composition [ edit ] 
The Folketing is composed of 179 seats, whereof two are reserved for the Faroe Islands and two for Greenland. The remaining 175 seats are taken up by MPs from elected in Denmark. All 179 seats are contested in elections held at least every four years and in the present parliament, all seats are taken up by members belonging to a political party.
All parties receiving more than 2f the votes are represented in parliament. Comparatively, this is quite low; in Sweden the minimum level of support necessary for getting into parliament is 4Often, this has led to the representation of many parties in parliament, and correspondingly complex/unstable government majorities. However, during the last decade the political system has been one of stable majorities and rather long government tenures.
Proportional representation and elections [ edit ] 
See also: Elections in Denmark 
Denmark does not use a first-past-the-post voting system based on constituencies. Instead a system of constituency based proportional representation as well as a system of allotment is indirectly prescribed in the constitution, ensuring a balanced distribution of the 179 seats. 135 members are elected by proportional majority in constituencies while the remaining 40 seats are allotted in proportion to the total number of votes a party or list receives. The Faroe Islands and Greenland elect two members each.
All parties and lists receiving more than 2f the total vote are guaranteed parliamentary representation. As a consequence of the system, the number of votes required to be elected to parliament varies across the country; it generally requires fewer votes to be elected in the capital of Copenhagen than it does being elected in less populous areas.
The voting system ensures a multi-party parliament with currently eight parties represented in parliament. The Prime Minister's Social Democrats received 24.8f the total vote in the 2011 general elections, making it the second-largest party with 44 seats. The smallest party in parliament is the Conservative People's Party which received 4.9f the total vote, equivalent to eight seats.
The participation of the electorate in general elections normally lies above 85/p> 
ead Summary of the 15 September 2011 Parliament of Denmark election results [ 9 ] [ 10 ] [ 11 ] [ 12 ] [ 13 ] Parties Leaders Votes th> Seats A Denmark proper , Liberals ( Venstre, Danmarks Liberale Parti ) (V), Lars LAkke Rasmussen, 947, 725, 26.7td> 47, +1, Social Democrats ( Socialdemokraterne ) (A), Helle Thorning-Schmidt, 879, 615, 24.8td> 44, a1, Danish People's Party ( Dansk Folkeparti ) (O), Pia KjArsgaard, 436, 726, 12.3td> 22, a3, Danish Social Liberal Party ( Det Radikale Venstre ) (B), Margrethe Vestager, 336, 698, 9.5td> 17, +8, Socialist People's Party ( Socialistisk Folkeparti ) (F), Villy SAvndal, 326, 192, 9.2td> 16, a7, Red-Green Alliance ( Enhedslisten ) (A), Collective leadership, 236, 860, 6.7td> 12, +8, Liberal Alliance ( Liberal Alliance ) (I), Anders Samuelsen, 176, 585, 5.0td> 9, +4, Conservative People's Party ( Det Konservative Folkeparti ) (C), Lars Barfoed, 175, 047, 4.9td> 8, a10, Christian Democrats ( Kristendemokraterne ) (K), Per Arum JArgensen, 28, 070, 0.8td> 0, A0, Candidates without parties , 1, 850, 0.1td> 0, A0, Red Alliance (A, B, F, A), Helle Thorning-Schmidt, 1, 779, 365, 50.2td> 89, +8, Blue Alliance (C, I, K, O, V), Lars LAkke Rasmussen, 1, 764, 153, 49.8td> 86, a8, Invalid votes, 34, 307, Subtotala(Turnout: 87.7 electorate: 4, 079, 910), 3, 545, 368, 100.0td> 175, Faroe Islands , Union Party ( Sambandsflokkurin ) (B), Kaj Leo Johannesen, 6, 361, 30.8td> 1, A0, Social Democratic Party ( JavnaAarflokkurin ) (C), Aksel Johannesen, 4, 328, 21.0td> 1, +1, Republic ( TjAAveldi ) (E), HAgni Hoydal, 3, 998, 19.4td> 0, a1, People's Party ( FAlkaflokkurin ) (A), JArgen Niclasen, 3, 932, 19.0td> 0, A0, Centre Party ( MiAflokkurin ) (H), Jenis av Rana, 872, 4.2td> 0, A0, Self-Government Party ( SjAlvstArisflokkurin ) (D), KAri A RAgvu, 481, 2.3td> 0, A0, Candidates without parties , 672, 3.3td> 0, A0, Invalid votes, 301, Subtotala(Turnout: 58.9 electorate: 35, 044), 20, 644, 100.0td> 2, Greenland , Inuit Community ( Inuit Ataqatigiit ), Kuupik Kleist, 9, 780, 42.7td> 1, A0, Forward ( Siumut ), Aleqa Hammond, 8, 499, 37.1td> 1, A0, Democrats ( Demokraatit ), Jens B. Frederiksen, 2, 882, 12.6td> 0, A0, Feeling of Community ( Atassut ), Finn Karlsen, 1, 728, 7.5td> 0, A0, Candidates without parties , 24, 0.1td> 0, A0, Invalid votes, 612, Subtotala(Turnout: 57.4 electorate: 40, 935), 22, 913, 100.0td> 2, Overall , Red Alliance (A, B, F, A, Siumut, Inuit Ataqatigiit, JavnaAarflokkurin), Helle Thorning-Schmidt, 1, 801, 972, 50.2td> 92, Blue Alliance (V, O, I, C, K, Union Party), Lars LAkke Rasmussen, 1, 770, 514, 49.3td> 87, Totala(Turnout: 87.2 electorate: 4, 156, 735), 3, 588, 919, 100.0td> 179, All turnout figures include invalid votes, subtotals and totals exclude invalid votes 
Judicial system [ edit ] 
See also: Courts of Denmark 
Denmark has an independent and highly professional judiciary. [ 14 ] Unlike the vast majority of civil servants, Danish judges are appointed directly by the Monarch. [ 15 ] However, since the constitution ensures the independence of the judiciary from Government and Parliament in providing that judges shall only take into account the laws of the country (i.e., acts, statutes and practices), [ 16 ] the procedure on appointments is only a formality. Until 1999 appointment of judges was a de facto responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, who, as well, was charged with the overall administration of the justice system. On accusations of nepotism and in-group bias, the Ministry in 1999 setup two quasi-autonomous non-governmental organizations responsible for appointments and administration. [ 17 ] 
Ombudsmanden [ edit ] 
The Danish Parliamentary Ombudsman, currently JArgen Steen SArensen, [ 18 ] is a lawyer who is elected by parliament to act as a watchdog over the government by inspecting institutions under government control, focusing primarily on the protection of citizens' rights. [ 19 ] The Ombudsman frequently inspects places where citizens are deprived of their personal freedom, including (but not limited to) prisons and psychiatric hospitals. [ 18 ] While the Ombudsman has no power to personally act against the government, he or she can ask the courts to take up cases where the government might be violating Danish law.
The Ombudsman can criticize the government after an inspection and bring matters to public attention, and the government can choose to act upon or ignore his/her criticism, with whatever costs it might have towards the voters and the parliament
Domestic and foreign relations [ edit ] 
Danish Realm [ edit ] 
Main article: Danish Realm 
Iceland, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands were formerly colonies of Denmark. The DanishaIcelandic Act of Union (1918) changed the status of Iceland into that of a kingdom in personal union with Denmark. Iceland remained subordinate to Denmark until independence in 1944 amidst World War II. In the nineteenth century Greenland and the Faroe Islands were given the status of counties, and their own legislatures were disbanded, becoming integral parts of a unitary state. [ 20 ] They later gained home rule; the Faroe Islands in 1948 and Greenland in 1979. [ 20 ] 
Today Greenland and the Faroe Islands are effectively self-governing in regards to domestic affairs, [ 20 ] with their own legislatures and executives. However, the devolved legislatures are subordinate to the Folketing where the two territories are represented by two seats each. This state of affairs is referred to as the rigsfAlleskab . In 2009 Greenland received greater autonomy in the form of "self-rule".
Foreign policy [ edit ] 
Main article: Foreign relations of Denmark Under former Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Denmark supported many of the United States' foreign policies 
Danish foreign policy is based on its identity as a sovereign nation in Europe. As such its primary foreign policy focus is on its relations with other nations as a sovereign independent nation. It is a member of NATO and the European Union; membership in the latter organization has brought forward questions regarding the sovereignty of Denmark and its parliament.
In recent years Greenland and the Faroe Islands have been guaranteed a say in foreign policy issues such as fishing, whaling, and geopolitical concerns.
See also [ edit ] 
Danish Defence, Monarchies in Europe, . 
Denmark portal , European Union portal , . , Notes [ edit ] 
^ a b c Government of Denmark (2011). "About Denmark > Government and Politics" . Retrieved 2011-12-28 . +Government+&+Politics and rft.date=2011 and rft.genre=book and rft_id=http://www.denmark.dk/en/menu/About-Denmark/Government-Politics/ and rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:book" class="Z3988"> , ^ Corruption Perceptions Index 2012 from Transparency International , ^ The Danish Monarchy (2011). "Her Majesty The Queen Margrethe 2". The Danish Monarchy . Retrieved 2012-01-12 . , ^ a b c The Danish Monarchy (2011). "The Monarchy today". The Danish Monarchy . , ^ Gunther, Richard; JosA R. Montero; Juan JosA Linz (2002-05-16). Political Parties: Old Concepts and New Challenges . Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN978-0-19-924674-8. , ^ Denmark.; Bent Rying (1970). Denmark: An Official Handbook (14th ed. ed.). Copenhagen: Krak. ISBN978-87-7225-011-3. , ^ "Section 14". Constitution of Denmark . ICL . Retrieved 6 September 2012 . , ^ Dickinson, Reginald (1890). "Denmark". Summary of the Constitution and Procedure of Foreign Parliaments . Vacher and sons. pp.34a45. , ^ "Folketingsvalg torsdag 15. september 2011". dst.dk . Statistics Denmark . Retrieved 16 September 2011 . , ^ "Kringvarp.fo - ValArslit". kringvarp.fo . Kringvarp FAroya . Retrieved 16 September 2011 . , ^ "Letter to Statistics Denmark regarding the Faroese election results". dst.dk . Statistics Denmark . Retrieved 16 September 2011 . , ^ "Folketingimut qinersineq 2011-mi inernerit". knr.gl . KNR . Retrieved 16 September 2011 . , ^ "Letter to Statistics Denmark regarding the Greenlandic election results". dst.dk . Statistics Denmark . Retrieved 16 September 2011 . , ^ Domstolsstyrelsen (2009-03-20). "The Danish judicial system". domstol.dk . Retrieved 2012-01-13 . , ^ Danmarks Domstole (2010). A Closer Look at the Courts of Denmark . Copenhagen: The Danish Court Administration. ISBN978-87-92551-14-6 . Retrieved 2012-01-13 . , ^ "The administration of justice shall always remain independent of the executive power. Rules to this effect shall be laid down by Statute..." The Constitution of Denmark a Sections/Articles 62 and 64. , ^ Domstolsstyrelsen (2009-03-20). "The Danish Court Administration". domstol.dk . Retrieved 2012-01-13 . , ^ a b Folketingets Ombudsmand. "The Danish Parliamentary Ombudsman" . Retrieved 2012-11-29 . , ^ GAtze, Michael (2010). "The Danish ombudsman A national watchdog with selected preferences". Utrecht Law Review 6 (1): 33a50. , ^ a b c The unity of the Realm a Statsministeriet a stm.dk. Retrieved 31 August 2012. , v , t , e , . Politics of Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark , Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , v , t , e , . Denmarktopics , History Archaeology, Viking Age, Kalmar Union, Reformation, Denmark-Norway, Colonization of the Americas, Empire, Scandinavian Monetary Union, Occupation during World War II Rescue of the Danish Jews, . , Postal history, . , Geography 
Cities, Danish straits, Extreme points, Former counties, Islands, Municipalities, Regions, Rivers, . , Politics 
Constitution, Courts, Elections, Folketing (parliament) , Foreign relations, Law, Law enforcement, LGBT rights, Military, Monarchy, Political parties, . , Economy 
2000s property bubble, Energy, Flexicurity, Krone (currency) , National Bank, Stock Exchange, Taxation, Communications, Tourism, Transport, . , Society 
Danes, Demographics, Crime, Education, Health care, Religion, . , Culture Art, Architecture, Cinema, Cuisine, Folklore, Jante Law, Language, Literature, Modern Breakthrough, Music, Photography, Prostitution, Public holidays, Sport, . , Symbols Coat of arms, Flag, National (civic) anthem, Royal anthem, . , Outline, Index, . Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_Denmark and oldid=626297474" Categories: Politics of Denmark, Government of Denmark, . Hidden categories: Articles containing Danish-language text, Wikipedia articles needing clarification from October 2012, Articles needing additional references from August 2012, All articles needing additional references, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from December 2011, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
aaaaa, DNDDDNNDD, AeAtina, Dansk, EspaAol, FranAais, iei, OOOOOOO, Aslenska, Italiano, aaaaaaa, Norsk bokmAl, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, Svenska, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 20 September 2014 at 04:08.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
