
Dependent territory - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Dependent territory 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
A dependent territory , dependent area or dependency is a territory that does not possess full political independence or sovereignty as a sovereign state yet remains politically outside of the controlling state's integral area. [ 1 ] 
A dependency is commonly distinguished from other subnational entities in that they are not considered to be part of the integral territory of the governing State. A subnational entity typically represents a division of the State proper , while a dependent territory often maintains a great degree of autonomy from the controlling State. Historically, most colonies were considered to be dependencies of their controlling State. Most of these have either become independent, by joining neighbouring independent countries, or assimilated into the conquering state. The dependencies that remain generally maintain a very high degree of political autonomy. Although dependencies retain a degree of autonomy, not all autonomous entities are considered to be dependencies. [ 2 ] 
The United Nations list of Trust and Non-Self-Governing Territories (official document 2002) 
Many political entities have a special position recognized by international treaty or agreement resulting in a certain level of autonomy or differences in immigration rules. These are sometimes [ 3 ] considered dependencies, [ 4 ] but are officially considered by their controlling states to be integral parts of the state. [ 3 ] Examples are Aland (Finland), Hong Kong (China), and Macau (China). [ 5 ] 
Contents
1 Summary of list contents , 2 Lists of dependent territories 2.1 New Zealand , 2.2 Norway , 2.3 United Kingdom , 2.4 United States , . , 3 Lists of other entities 3.1 Australia , 3.2 China , 3.3 Denmark , 3.4 Finland , 3.5 France , 3.6 Netherlands , 3.7 Norway , 3.8 United States , . , 4 Description , 5 See also , 6 Notes and references , 7 Bibliography , 8 External links , . 
Summary of list contents [ edit ] 
The following listings indicate (or can be interpreted to indicate): 
4 dependent territories in the listing for New Zealand;, 2 dependent territories and 1 dependency claim in the listing for Norway;, 13 dependent territories, 3 crown dependencies, 1 sovereign base area and 1 dependency claim in the listing for United Kingdom;, 13 dependent territories, 2 dependency claims and 1 unorganized incorporated territory in the listings for the United States;, 6 territories in administration and 1 dependency claim in the listing for Australia;, 2 special administrative regions in the listing for China;, 1 territory governed according an act and international treaties in the listing for Finland;, 7 territories with various administrative descriptions in the listing for France;, 1 territory with autonomy in internal affairs, 2 territories that are part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands but not of the European Union whilst having citizens that are Citizens of the European Union and 3 integrated territories in the listing for the Netherlands;, 2 territories with limited Norwegian sovereignty in the listing for Norway., . 
Lists of dependent territories [ edit ] 
Dependency claims without general international recognition, including all claims in Antarctica, are listed in italics . The list includes several territories that are not included in the list of non-self-governing territories listed by the General Assembly of the United Nations. [ 6 ] This list includes territories that have not been legally incorporated into their governing state.
New Zealand [ edit ] 
See also: Realm of New Zealand 
Summary: New Zealand has 4 dependent territories.
In free association Administration ISO 3166 country code Cook Islands, Self-governing state in free association with New Zealand since 1965. Cook Islands' status is considered to be equivalent to independence for international law purposes, and the country exercises full sovereignty over its internal and external affairs. [ 7 ] Under the terms of the free association agreement, however, New Zealand retains some responsibility for the external affairs and defence of the Cook Islands. These responsibilities confer no rights of control and are only exercised at the request of the Cook Islands Government., CK COK 184, Niue, Self-governing state in free association with New Zealand since 1974. Niue's status is considered to be equivalent to independence for international law purposes, and the country exercises full sovereignty over its internal and external affairs. [ 7 ] Under the terms of the free association agreement, however, New Zealand retains some responsibility for the external affairs and defence of Niue. These responsibilities confer no rights of control and are only exercised at the request of the Government of Niue., NU NIU 570, Territory Administration ISO 3166 country code Tokelau, Territory of New Zealand. As it moves toward free association with New Zealand, Tokelau and New Zealand have agreed to a draft constitution. A UN-sponsored referendum on self-governance in February 2006 did not produce the two-thirds supermajority necessary for changing the current political status. Another one was in October 2007, which failed to reach the 2/3 margin., TK TKL 772, Ross Dependency , No permanent population. New Zealand's Antarctic claim., no separate code, Norway [ edit ] 
See also: Dependencies of Norway 
Summary: Norway has 2 dependent territories and 1 dependency claim .
Dependency Administration ISO 3166 country code Bouvet Island, No permanent population. Dependency administered from Oslo by the Polar Affairs Department of the Ministry of Justice and the Police., BV BVT 074, Peter I Island , No permanent population. Dependencies (subject to the Antarctic Treaty System) administered from Oslo by the Polar Affairs Department of the Ministry of Justice and the Police., no separate code, Queen Maud Land , no separate code, United Kingdom [ edit ] 
See also: British overseas territories, Crown dependency and Sovereign Base Areas 
Summary: the United Kingdom has 13 dependent territories, 3 crown dependencies, 1 sovereign base area and 1 dependency claim .
Overseas territories Administration ISO 3166 country code Anguilla, British overseas territories., AI AIA 660, Cayman Islands, KY CYM 136, Gibraltar, GI GIB 292, Montserrat, MS MSR 500, Pitcairn Islands, PN PCN 612, Turks and Caicos Islands, TC TCA 796, Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha, SH SHN 654, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, GS SGS 239, Bermuda, British overseas territory or self-governing territory as defined by the UK., BM BMU 060, British Antarctic Territory , No permanent population. The UK's Antarctic claim., no separate code, British Indian Ocean Territory, Inhabitants expelled. [ 8 ] British overseas territory administered by a commissioner resident in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, London., IO IOT 086, British Virgin Islands, British overseas territory with internal self-government., VG VGB 092, Falkland Islands, British overseas territory. Falkland Islands also administers South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands through the Governor of the Falkland Islands as representative of the British monarch., FK FLK 238, Sovereign Base Areas Administration ISO 3166 country code Akrotiri and Dhekelia, British overseas territory administered by the Commander of British Forces, Cyprus. Note: SBAs are primarily required as military bases and not ordinary dependent territories., no separate code, Crown dependencies Administration ISO 3166 country code Guernsey, Responsibility for defence, international representation, and good government rests with the United Kingdom. Though, the Parliament of the United Kingdom can legislate on their behalf, if it deem necessary. [ 9 ] [ 10 ] [ 11 ] , GG GGY 831, Jersey, JE JEY 832, Isle of Man, IM IMN 833, United States [ edit ] 
See also: Insular area and Territories of the United States 
Summary: the United States has 13 dependent territories, 2 dependency claims and 1 unorganized incorporated territory (listed in "Lists of other entities" below).
Dependent territories
(inhabited) Administration ISO 3166 country code American Samoa, Unincorporated and unorganized territory administered by the Office of Insular Affairs, U.S. Department of the Interior. Appears on the United Nations list of Non-Self-Governing Territories., AS ASM 016, Guam, Unincorporated organized territory; policy relations between Guam and the U.S. conducted under the jurisdiction of the Office of Insular Affairs, U.S. Department of the Interior. Appears on the United Nations list of Non-Self-Governing Territories., GU GUM 316, Northern Mariana Islands, Commonwealth in political union with the U.S.; federal funding administered by the Office of Insular Affairs, U.S. Department of the Interior., MP MNP 580, Puerto Rico, Unincorporated organized territory of the U.S. with commonwealth status; policy relations between Puerto Rico and the U.S. conducted under the jurisdiction of the Office of the President., PR PRI 630, U.S. Virgin Islands, Unincorporated organized territory; policy relations between the Virgin Islands and the U.S. conducted under the jurisdiction of the Office of Insular Affairs, U.S. Department of the Interior. Appears on the United Nations list of Non-Self-Governing Territories., VI VIR 850, Dependent territories
(uninhabited) Administration ISO 3166 country code Baker Island, Unorganized and unincorporated territory administered from Washington, D.C. by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the United States Department of the Interior., UM UMI 581, Howland Island, Jarvis Island, Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Midway Island, Navassa Island, Unincorporated territory of the U.S. administered by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the U.S. Department of the Interior from the Caribbean Islands National Wildlife Refuge in BoquerAn, Puerto Rico. Claimed by Haiti and privately via the Guano Islands Act., Wake Island, Supervised by the U.S. Air Force, administered from Washington, D.C. by the U.S. Department of the Interior, and is claimed by the Marshall Islands., Bajo Nuevo Bank , Unincorporated territory of the U.S. administered by the U.S. Department of the Interior. Currently controlled by Colombia, and also claimed by Jamaica and Nicaragua., no separate code, Serranilla Bank , Unincorporated territory of the U.S. administered by the U.S. Department of the Interior. Currently controlled by Colombia, and also claimed by Honduras and Nicaragua., no separate code, Lists of other entities [ edit ] 
The following entities have been legally included as a full part of their governing country, but are often described as dependencies. Most inhabited territories have their own country codes.
Australia [ edit ] 
See also: States and territories of Australia 
Summary: Australia has 6 territories in its adiministration and 1 dependency claim .
Although all territories of Australia are considered to be fully integrated in its federative system, and the official status of an external territory does not differ largely from that of a mainland territory (except in regards to immigration law), debate remains as to whether the external territories are integral parts of Australia, due to their not being part of Australia in 1901, when its constituent states federated. [ 12 ] They are often listed separately for statistical purposes.
Inhabited territories Administration ISO 3166 country code Christmas Island, Administered from Canberra by the Attorney-General's Department. [ 13 ] [ 14 ] , CX CXR 162, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, CC CCK 166, Norfolk Island, Commonwealth responsibilities administered from Canberra through the Attorney-General's Department. [ 13 ] , NF NFK 574, Uninhabited territories Administration ISO 3166 country code Ashmore and Cartier Islands, Administered from Canberra by the Attorney-General's Department. [ 13 ] , no separate code, Coral Sea Islands [ 15 ] , no separate code, Australian Antarctic Territory , Administered from Canberra by the Australian Antarctic Division of the Department of the Environment and Heritage., no separate code, Heard Island
and McDonald Islands, HM HMD 334, China [ edit ] 
See also: Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China 
Summary: China had 2 special administrative regions.
Division Administration ISO 3166 country code Hong Kong, Former British colony. Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China since 1997 pursuant to the Sino-British Joint Declaration, an international treaty registered with the United Nations. The Hong Kong Basic Law provides for the territory to enjoy a high degree of autonomy in accordance with the One Country, Two Systems model under the central government of China. Although the territory is not part of Mainland China, it is officially considered as an integral part of the People's Republic of China. [ 16 ] [ 17 ] [ 18 ] , HK HKG 344, Macau, Former Portuguese colony. Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China since 1999 pursuant to the Sino-Portuguese Joint Declaration, an international treaty registered with the United Nations. The Macau Basic Law provides for the territory to enjoy a high degree of autonomy in accordance with the One Country, Two Systems model under the central government of China. Although the territory is not part of Mainland China, it is officially considered as an integral part of the People's Republic of China., MO MAC 446, Denmark [ edit ] 
See also: RigsfAllesskabet 
Summary: Denmark has 2 self-governing overseas administrative division.
Division Administration ISO 3166 country code Faroe Islands, Self-governing overseas administrative division since 1948. Part of Denmark, but not of the European Union., FO FRO 234, Greenland, Self-governing overseas administrative division since 1979. Part of Denmark. Withdrew from the European Economic Community in 1985., GL GRL 304, Finland [ edit ] 
See also: Administrative divisions of Finland 
Summary: Finland has 1 territory governed according an act and international treaties.
Division Administration ISO 3166 country code Aland Islands, The Aland Islands are governed according to the Act on the Autonomy of Aland and international treaties. These laws guarantee the islands' autonomy from Finland, which has ultimate sovereignty over them, as well as a demilitarized status, AX ALA 248, France [ edit ] 
See also: Overseas departments and territories of France 
Summary: France has 7 dependent territories with various administrative descriptions.
Inhabited territories Administration ISO 3166 country code French Polynesia, Overseas collectivity since 2003; Overseas country since 2004. Appears on the United Nations list of Non-Self-Governing Territories., PF PYF 258, New Caledonia, " Sui generis " collectivity since 1999. Appears on the United Nations list of Non-Self-Governing Territories., NC NCL 540, Saint BarthAlemy, Changed its status from OMR (outermost region) to OCT (Overseas collectivities) with effect from 1 January 2012. [ 19 ] , BL BLM 652, Saint Martin, MF MAF 663, Saint Pierre and Miquelon, Territorial collectivity since 1985; overseas collectivity since 2003., PM SPM 666, Wallis and Futuna, Overseas territory since 1961; overseas collectivity since 2003., WF WLF 876, Uninhabited territories Administration ISO 3166 country code Clipperton Island, Island administered by the Minister for Overseas Territories. No permanent population., no separate code, French Southern and Antarctic Lands, The French Southern and Antarctic Lands (called TAAF for Terres australes et antartiques franAaises ) is an Overseas territory since 1955, administered from Paris by an Administrateur SupArieur. No permanent population. Includes the French territorial claim in Antarctica: Adelie Land ., TF ATF 260, Netherlands [ edit ] 
See also: Kingdom of the Netherlands 
Summary: The Kingdom of the Netherlands consists of 3 Caribbean countries, territories with autonomy in internal affairs and one country (Netherlands) with most of its area in Europe, but which includes 3 Caribbean territories. All Dutch citizens of the Kingdom share the same nationality and are thus citizens of the European Union.
Division Administration ISO 3166 country code Aruba, Each is defined as a "country" ("land") within the Kingdom of the Netherlands by the Statute of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Aruba obtained full autonomy in internal affairs upon separation from the Netherlands Antilles in 1986. CuraAao and Sint Maarten were part of the Netherlands Antilles until it was dissolved in October 2010. The government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands virtually but not entirely coincides with the government of the Netherlands, and is responsible for defence, foreign affairs and nationality law. Part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands but not of the European Union, but owing to their Dutch nationality, its citizens are Citizens of the European Union., AW ABW 533, CuraAao, CW CUW 531, Sint Maarten, SX SXM 534, Bonaire, Following the dissolution of the Netherlands Antilles in October 2010, Bonaire, Saba and Sint Eustatius became formally integrated with the Netherlands as special municipalities , although a different system of law exists. The territories are not part of the European Union, but owing to their Dutch nationality, its citizens are Citizens of the European Union., BQ BES 535, Saba, Sint Eustatius, Norway [ edit ] 
See also: Administrative divisions of Norway 
Summary: Norway has 2 territories with limited Norwegian sovereignty .
Division Administration ISO 3166 country code Svalbard, Svalbard is subject to an international treaty with some limits to Norwegian sovereignty., SJ SJM 744, Jan Mayen, The legal status of Jan Mayen is basically the same as the Svalbard archipelago, and unlike the Norwegian possessions in the Antarctic, which are dependencies and not integral parts of the Kingdom. [ 20 ] Jan Mayen shares county governor (fylkesmann) with Nordland county., United States [ edit ] 
See also: Incorporated territory A Incorporated unorganized territories 
(This listing of an unorganized incorporated territory is mentioned in the United States' summary above).
Division Administration ISO 3166 country code Palmyra Atoll, Unorganized incorporated territory administered from Washington, D.C. by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the United States Department of the Interior. Part of the United States Minor Outlying Islands, which is otherwise made up of officially unincorporated territories. The 50 states, District of Columbia and Palmyra comprise the incorporated lands of the United States., UM UMI 581, Description [ edit ] 
Three Crown dependencies are in a form of association with the UK. They are independently administrated jurisdictions, although the British Government is solely responsible for defence and international representation, and has ultimate responsibility for ensuring good government. They do not have diplomatic recognition as independent states, but they are not an integrated part of the UK, nor do they form part of the European Union. The UK Parliament retains the ability to legislate for the Crown dependencies even without the agreement of the insular legislatures. None of the Crown dependencies has representatives in the UK Parliament. Bermuda and Gibraltar have similar relationships to the UK as the Crown dependencies. While Britain is officially responsible for defence and international representation, these jurisdictions maintain their own militaries and have been granted limited diplomatic powers, in addition to having internal self-government. Nevertheless, they are British overseas territories.
New Zealand and dependencies share the same Governor-General and constitute one realm. The Cook Islands and Niue are officially termed associated states.
Puerto Rico (since 1952) and the Northern Mariana Islands (since 1986) are non-independent states freely associated with the United States. The mutually negotiated Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI) in Political Union with the United States was approved in 1976. The Covenant was fully implemented November 3, 1986, pursuant to Presidential Proclamation no. 5564, which conferred United States citizenship on legally qualified CNMI residents. [ 21 ] 
Under the Constitution of Puerto Rico, Puerto Rico is described as a Commonwealth and Puerto Ricans have a degree of administrative autonomy similar to citizens of a U.S. state. Puerto Ricans "were collectively made U.S. citizens" in 1917 as a result of the Jones-Shafroth Act. [ 22 ] [ 23 ] The commonly used name in Spanish of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Estado Libre Asociado de Puerto Rico , literally "Associated Free State of Puerto Rico", which sounds similar to "free association" particularly when loosely used in Spanish, is sometimes erroneously interpreted to mean that Puerto Rico's relationship with United States is based on a Compact of Free Association and at other times erroneously held to mean that Puerto Rico's relationship with United States is based on an Interstate compact. This is a constant source of ambiguity and confusion when trying to define, understand and explain Puerto Rico's political relationship with the United States. For various reasons Puerto Rico's political status differs from that of the Pacific Islands that entered into Compacts of Free Association with the United States. As sovereign states, these islands have full right to conduct their own foreign relations, while the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico has territorial status subject to United States congressional authority under the Constitution's Territory Clause, ato dispose of and make all needful Rules and Regulations respecting the Territorya belonging to the United States.a. [ 24 ] Puerto Rico does not have the right to unilaterally declare independence, and at the last referendum (1998) the narrow majority voted for "none of the above", which was a formally undefined alternative used by commonwealth supporters to express their desire for an "enhanced commonwealth" option. [ 24 ] 
This kind of relationship also can be found in the Kingdom of the Netherlands, which is a federacy. The continental part is organized like a unitary state but the status of its territories (Aruba, since 1986, and the Netherlands Antilles, since 1954 until 2010) can be considered dependencies or "associated non-independent states". After the split-up of the Netherlands Antilles, CuraAao and Sint Maarten are separate associated states like Aruba.
Additionally, Denmark operates in a similar manner to a federacy. The Faroes and Greenland are two self-governing territories, or regions within the Kingdom. The relationship between Denmark proper and the two territories is semi-officially termed the "RigsfAllesskabet".
See also [ edit ] 
Associated state, Colonisation, Colony, Condominium, Federacy, List of autonomous areas by country, List of current dependent territory leaders, List of sovereign states, List of former sovereign states - Section: Former colonies, possessions, protectorates and territories, Suzerainty, Table of administrative divisions by country, Territorial claims in Antarctica, United Nations list of Non-Self-Governing Territories, . 
Notes and references [ edit ] 
This article incorporatespublic domain material from websites or documents of the CIA World Factbook.
^ United Nations General Assembly Resolution 1514 , ^ United Nations Trusteeship Council , ^ a b United Nations General Assembly 15th Session - The Trusteeship System and Non-Self-Governing Territories (pages:509-510) , ^ Listaba.com , ^ The World Factbook. Cia.gov. Retrieved on 2013-07-12. , ^ For the list, see Special Committee on Decolonization (2002). "Trust and Non-Self-Governing Territories". United Nations, Special Committee on Decolonization . Retrieved 2010-09-23 . , ^ a b http://www.justice.govt.nz/publications/publications-archived/2000/pacific-peoples-constitution-report-september-2000/documents/Bibliography.doc , ^ "The U.S. Government Must Redress Wrongs Against the Chagossians". Whitehouse.gov . Retrieved 4 April 2012 . , ^ CIA (2010-07-15). "Guernsey at the CIA's page". CIA . Retrieved 2010-07-15 . , ^ CIA (2010-07-15). "Jersey at the CIA's page". CIA . Retrieved 2010-07-15 . , ^ CIA (2010-07-15). "The Isle of Man at the CIA's page". CIA . Retrieved 2010-07-15 . , ^ Carney, Gerard (2006). The constitutional systems of the Australian states and territories . Canberra: Cambridge University Press. ISBN978-0-521-86305-6. , ^ a b c First Assistant Secretary, Territories Division (2008-01-30). "Territories of Australia". Attorney-General's Department . Retrieved 2008-02-07 . "The Federal Government, through the Attorney-General's Department administers Ashmore and Cartier Islands, Christmas Island, the Cocos (Keeling) Islands, the Coral Sea Islands, Jervis Bay, and Norfolk Island as Territories." , ^ Territories and Information Law Division; First Assistant Secretary, Territories and Information Law Division (7 September 2009). "Cocos Islands Governance and Administration". Territories of Australia . Australian Government, Attorney-General's Department . Retrieved 2010-09-23 . Cite uses deprecated parameters (help) , ^ Willis Island is permanently manned by a small team of meteorologists. , ^ acaeaaea31aeaaeeaaeaaecceaeae. Gov.cn (2006-12-30). Retrieved on 2013-07-12. , ^ 2010acaaeaaaeaaeaeaeeaeaeaaeic1ai. Stats.gov.cn. Retrieved on 2013-07-12. , ^ eaeeieaeaecaeaeaaaeeceeaaeae. Big5.huaxia.com. Retrieved on 2013-07-12. , ^ AFP (29 October 2010). "La collectivitA de Saint-BarthAlAmy obtient un nouveau statut europAen". MinistAre de laOutre-Mer (in French) . Retrieved 8 April 2011 . , ^ The Scope for Norwegian Commitments Related to International Research on Jan Mayen Island , ^ CIA (2010-07-15). "Northern Mariana Islands at the CIA's page". CIA . Retrieved 2010-07-15 . , ^ The Louisiana Purchase and American Expansion: 1803-1898. By Sanford Levinson and Bartholomew H. Sparrow. New York: Rowman and Littlefield Publishers. 2005. Page 166, 178. "U.S. citizenship was extended to residents of Puerto Rico by virtue of the Jones Act, chap. 190, 39 Stat. 951 (1971) (codified at 48 U.S.C. A 731 (1987)") , ^ CIA (2010-07-15). "Puerto Rico at the CIA's page". CIA . Retrieved 2010-07-15 . , ^ a b December 2005 report of the President's Task Force on Puerto Rico's Status , Bibliography [ edit ] 
George Drower, Britain's Dependent Territories , Dartmouth, 1992, George Drower, Overseas Territories Handbook , TSO, 1998, . 
External links [ edit ] 
WorldStatesmen- includes former dependent states, . 
v , t , e , . Terms for types of administrative territorial entities , English terms , Common English terms 1 , Area Insular area, Local government area, Special area, Urban area, . , Borough County borough, Metropolitan borough, . , Capital Federal capital, Imperial capital , . , City Autonomous city, Charter city, Independent city, Imperial city , Free imperial city , Royal free city , . , Community Autonomous community, Residential community, . , County Administrative county, Autonomous county, Consolidated city-county, Metropolitan county Non-metropolitan, . , Viscountcy, . , District Capital district, City district, Electoral district, Federal district, Indian government district, Land district, Metropolitan district, Military district, Municipal district, Police district, Regional district, Rural district, Sanitary district, Subdistrict, Urban district, . , Municipality Direct-controlled municipality, District municipality, Mountain resort municipality, Regional municipality County, . , Resort municipality, Rural municipality, Specialized municipality, . , Prefecture Autonomous prefecture, Subprefecture, Super-prefecture, Praetorian prefecture , . , Province Autonomous province, Island province, Overseas province , Roman province , . , Region Administrative region, Autonomous region, Capital region, Development region, Economic region, Mesoregion, Microregion, Overseas region, Planning region, Special administrative region, Statistical region, Subregion, . , State Federal state, Free state, Sovereign state , . , Territory Capital territory Federal capital, . , Dependent territory , Enclave and exclave, Federal territory, Military territory, Organized incorporated territory, Overseas territory, Union territory, Unorganized territory, . , Town Township Charter, Civil, Paper, Survey, Urban, . , . , Unit Autonomous territorial unit, Local administrative unit, . , Zone Exclusive economic zone, Free economic zone, Free trade zone, Self-administered zone, Special economic zone, . , Other English terms , Current Alpine resort, Bailiwick, Banner Autonomous, . , Block, Cadastre, Canton, Circle, Circuit, Colony, Commune, Condominium, Constituency, Department Overseas department, . , Division Police division, Subdivision, . , Duchy, Eldership, Federal dependency, Governorate, Hamlet, Manor Royal, . , Neighbourhood, Parish, Periphery, Precinct, Principality, Protectorate, Quarter, Regency, Autonomous republic, Reservation, Reserve, Riding, Sector Autonomous, . , Shire, Suzerainty, Townland, Village Administrative, Summer, . , Ward, . , Historical Agency, Barony, Burgh, Exarchate, Hide, Hundred, Imperial Circle, March, Monthon, Presidency, Residency, Roman diocese, Seat, Tenth, Tithing, . , Non-English or loanwords , Current Amt, Bairro, Bakhsh, Barangay, Bezirk, Regierungsbezirk, Comune, Frazione, Freguesia, Fu, Gemeinde, JudeE, Kunta/ kommun Finland, Sweden, . , LAn, LocalitA, Megye, Muban, Oblast Autonomous, . , Okrug, OstAn, Poblacion, Purok, ShahrestAn, Sum, SAsla, Tehsil, Vingtaine, . , Historical Commote, Gau, Heerlijkheid, KAping, Maalaiskunta, Nome Egypt, Greece, . , Pagus, Pargana, PlasA, Satrapy, Subah, Syssel, Zhou, . , v , t , e , . Arabic terms for country subdivisions , First-level Muhafazah( UOOUOO governorate ), Wilayah( UUOUO province ), Mintaqah( UUOUO region ), Mudiriyah( UOUOUO directorate ), Imarah( OUOOO emirate ), Baladiyah( OUOUO municipality ), Shabiyah( OOOUO "popularate" ), . , Second/ third-level Mintaqah( UUOUO region ), Qadaa( UOOO district ), Nahiyah( UOOUO subdistrict ), Markaz( UOUO district ), Mutamadiyah( UOOUOUO "delegation" ), Daerah/DaAra( OOOOO circle ), Liwa( UUOO banner/ sanjak ), . , City/ township-level Amanah( OUOUO municipality ), Baladiyah( OUOUO municipality ), aai( OU neighborhood/ quarter ), Mahallah( UOUO ), Sheyakhah( OUOOO "neighborhood subdivision" ), . , English translations given are those most commonly used. , v , t , e , . French terms for country subdivisions , arrondissement, dApartement, prAfecture, subprefectures, . , v , t , e , . Greek terms for country subdivisions , Modern apokentromAnes dioikAseis( el ) / genike dioikesis A / diamerisma A / periphereia, nomos A / peripheriake enoteta, demos / eparchia A / koinoteta A , . , Historical archontia/archontaton, bandon, demos, despotaton, dioikesis, doukaton, droungos, eparchia, exarchaton, katepanikion, kephalatikion, kleisoura, meris, naukrareia, satrapeia, strategis, thema, toparchia, tourma, . , A signifies a defunct institution , v , t , e , . Slavic terms for country subdivisions , Current dzielnica, gmina, krai, kraj, krajina / pokrajina, mAstys, obec, oblast / oblast' / oblasti / oblys / obwAd / voblast', okrAg, okres, okrug, opAtina / opAina / obAina / obshtina, osiedle, powiat / povit, raion, selsoviet / silrada, soAectwo, voivodeship / vojvodina, Aupanija, . , Historical darugha, gromada, guberniya / gubernia, jurydyka, khutor, obshchina, opole, pogost, prowincja, sorok, starostwo / starostva, uyezd, volost, ziemia, Aupa, . , v , t , e , . Spanish terms for country subdivisions , National, Federal Comunidad autAnoma, Departamento, Distrito federal, Estado, Provincia, RegiAn, . , Regional, Metropolitan CantAn, Comarca, Comuna, Corregimiento, DelegaciAn, Distrito, Mancomunidad, Merindad , Municipalidad, Municipio, Parroquia Ecuador, Spain, . , . , Urban, Rural Aldea, AlquerAa, Anteiglesia , Asentamiento Asentamiento informal, Pueblos jAvenes, . , Barrio, Campamento, CaserAo, Ciudad Ciudad autAnoma, . , Colonia, Lugar, MasAa, Poblacion, RancherAa, Sitio, Vereda, Villa, Village (Pueblito/Pueblo), . , Historical subdivisions in italics ., . , v , t , e , . Turkish terms for country subdivisions , Modern il (province), ilAe (district), bucak (subdistrict), village, mahalle (neighbourhood/quarter), . , Historical agaluk, arpalik, eyalet (province, also beylerbeylik and pashalik), kadiluk (sub-province), kaza (sub-province), khedivate (viceroyalty), mutasarrAfate (sub-province), bucak/nahiye (sub-district), raya, sanjak (prefecture), vilayet (sub-province), voyvodalAk (sub-province), . , 1 Used by ten or more countries. Historical derivations in italics . See also: Census division, Electoral district, Political division and Table of administrative divisions by country , v , t , e , . United Nations list of Non-Self-Governing Territories , France French Polynesia, New Caledonia, . , New Zealand Tokelau, . , Spain / Morocco Western Sahara, . , United Kingdom Anguilla, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands, Gibraltar, Montserrat, Pitcairn Islands, Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha, Turks and Caicos Islands, . , United States American Samoa, Guam, United States Virgin Islands, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Dependent_territory and oldid=624581681" Categories: Dependent territories, Lists of countries, Types of country subdivisions, Territories, . Hidden categories: Pages containing cite templates with deprecated parameters, CS1 French-language sources (fr), Wikipedia articles incorporating text from the World Factbook, Articles containing Arabic-language text, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
Afrikaans, Anglisc, OUOOOUO, AragonAs, BAn-lAm-gA, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, DNDDDNNDD, CatalA, AeAtina, Cymraeg, Dansk, Deutsch, EspaAol, UOOOU, FAroyskt, FranAais, Galego, iei, aaaaaa, Hrvatski, Ilokano, Bahasa Indonesia, Interlingua, Aslenska, Italiano, Basa Jawa, aaaaaaa, ODDDOND, Latina, LatvieAu, Limburgs, Magyar, DDDDDDDNDD, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, DDND NNDD, Scots, Simple English, SlovenAAina, DNDNDD / srpski, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Basa Sunda, Svenska, Tagalog, aaaaa, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, OOOU, VAneto, Tiang Viat, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 7 September 2014 at 20:39.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
