
E-Government in Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
E-Government in Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Russia , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Russia , Constitution, Law, . Impeachment, Mental Health Law, Russian Criminal Code, Tax Code, . , Presidency President: Vladimir Putin, . Presidential Administration, Security Council, State Council, . , Executive Prime Minister: Dmitry Medvedev, . Government, Cabinet (14th) , . , Legislature Federal Assembly, Federation Council, State Duma, . , . , Judiciary Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, Prosecutor General, Supreme Court of Arbitration, Legal system, . , Elections Presidential elections, Legislative elections, Central Election Commission, Electoral geography, Political parties, . , Foreign relations United Nations, ArabaIsraeli conflict, . , Related topics Administrative divisions, Federal subjects, Regional parliaments, Armed forces, Martial law, . , Civic Chamber, Accounts Chamber, E-Government , Opposition, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , Until 2002 Russia did not have unified e-government development policy. [ 1 ] On 2002 the Russian government approved aElectronic Russiaa (E-Russia), [ 2 ] an ambitious, nine-year, $2.57 billion. The program stated:
aAn important result of the distribution of the information and communication
technologies (ICTs) and penetration of them into all spheres of social life is the creation of the legal, organizational, and technological conditions for the development of democracy due to the real support of the rights of citizens for unhindered search, reception, transmission, production, and distribution of informationa
Only 19f specialists in the central governmental staff and 1verall of the workers in the federal government agencies were connected to the Internet in 2003. [ 3 ] E-Russia included goals to connect all universities to the Internet by 2005, all smaller higher education institutions by 2010, and to cut the price of Internet access in half.
The Federal Target Program "Information Society (2011-2018)" was adopted in 2010. The key project of this program is Electronic Government 2011a2015. [ 4 ] 
Legislation [ edit ] 
Initially, the government of the Russian Federation approved 5 documents expiring in 2010 which concern the development of e-government:
The Administrative Reform Concept of the Russian Federation and the program of its realization, The Federal Target Program aE-Russiaa, The E-government Concept of the Russian Federation, The Regional Informatization Concept, The Concept of the Application of the Information Technologies by Public Authorities, . 
The Federal Law aOn the access to information on the activity of the state and local authoritiesa [ 5 ] and Order of the Government of Russia a478 from June 15, 2009 a On the unified system of I and R support of citizens and organizations on questions concerning their cooperation with the state and local authorities by means of the Internet a were issued in 2009.
See also [ edit ] 
Government of Russia, Telecommunications in Russia, Television in Russia, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ "The Return of Electronic Russia", Russoft, November 5, 2003. , ^ Higher School of Economics State University (2003) "Electronic Russia" (in Russian) , ^ Reyman, L. (2003) "Information Technologies in the Work of Federal Governmental Agencies" (in Russian), Vestnik Svyazi International, 9, pp. 1-8 , ^ Armada annual report , ^ The Federal Law of the Russian Federation #8-FL from February, 9, 2009 aOn the access to information on the activity of the state and local authorities.a , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=E-Government_in_Russia and oldid=552435978" Categories: E-Government by country, Science and technology in Russia, Government of Russia, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
, . Edit links This page was last modified on 27 April 2013 at 16:25.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
