
East Slavs - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
East Slavs 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article relies largely or entirely upon a single source . Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please help improve this article by introducing citations to additional sources. (December 2009) , East Slavs
DNNDDDNN NDDDNDD (blr.)
DDNNDNDND NDDDNDD (ru.)
DNNDDN NDDD'NDD (uk.)
on the map of Europe. Total population 200+ million, Regions with significant populations 
Majority: Belarus, Russia, Ukraine.
Minority: Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Moldova, former Soviet states., Languages East Slavic languages:
Belarusian, Russian, Rusyn, Ukrainian , Religion Orthodox Christianity, Catholic Church, Non-Religious Minorities, Related ethnic groups Slavs, European territory inhabited by East Slavic tribes in 8th and 9th century. 
The East Slavs are Slavic peoples speaking East Slavic languages. Formerly the main population of the medieval state of Kievan Rus, by the seventeenth century they evolved into the Russian, Ukrainian and Belarusian [ 1 ] peoples.
Contents
1 History 1.1 Sources , 1.2 Migration , 1.3 Pre-Kievan period , 1.4 Post-Kievan period , . , 2 Modern East Slavs , 3 Gallery , 4 See also , 5 References , . 
History [ edit ] 
Sources [ edit ] 
Relatively little is known about the Eastern Slavs prior to approximately 859 AD, the date from which the account in the Primary Chronicle starts. The reasons are the apparent absence of a written language (Cyrillic script, created about 863 was specifically for Slavic adoption) and the remoteness of East Slavic lands. What little is known comes from archaeological digs, foreign traveller accounts of the Rus land, and linguistic comparative analyses of Slavic languages.
Very few native Rus' documents dating before the 11th century (none ante-dating the 10th century) have been discovered. The earliest major manuscript with information on Rus' history is the Primary Chronicle, written in the late 11th and early 12th centuries. It lists twelve Slavic tribal unions who, by the 10th century settled in the later territory of the Kievan Rus between the Western Bug, Dniepr and the Black Sea. These tribal unions were Polans , Drevlyans , Dregovichs , Radimichs , Vyatichs , Krivichss , Slovens , Dulebes (later known as Volhynians and Buzhans), White Croats , Severians , Ulichs , Tivertsi .
Migration [ edit ] 
"Slavic settlement" by I. Pchelko 
There is no consensus among scholars as to the urheimat of the Slavs. In the first millennium AD, Slavic settlers are likely to have been in contact with other ethnic groups who moved across the East European Plain during the Migration Period. Between the first and ninth centuries, the Sarmatians, Huns, Alans, Avars, Bulgars, and Magyars passed through the Pontic steppe in their westward migrations. Although some of them could have subjugated the region's Slavs, these foreign tribes left little trace in the Slavic lands. The Early Middle Ages also saw Slavic expansion as an agriculturist and beekeeper, hunter, fisher, herder, and trapper people. By the 8th century, the Slavs were the dominant ethnic group on the East European Plain.
By 600 AD, the Slavs had split linguistically into southern, western, and eastern branches. The East Slavs practiced "slash and burn" agricultural methods which were well-suited to the endless forests in which they settled. This method of agriculture involved clearing tracts of forest with fire, cultivating it and then moving on after a few years. Slash and burn agriculture requires frequent movement, because soil cultivated in this manner only yields good harvests for a few years before exhausting itself, and the reliance on slash and burn agriculture by the East Slavs explains their rapid spread through eastern Europe. [ 2 ] The East Slavs flooded Eastern Europe in two streams. One group of tribes settled along the Dnieper river in what is now Ukraine and Belorussia to the North; they then spread northward to the northern Volga valley, east of modern-day Moscow and westward to the basins of the northern Dniester and the Southern Buh rivers in present-day Ukraine and southern Ukraine.
Another group of East Slavs moved from Pomerania to the northeast, where they encountered the Varangians of the Rus' Khaganate and established an important regional centre of Novgorod. The same Slavic population also settled the present-day Tver Oblast and the region of Beloozero. Having reached the lands of the Merya near Rostov, they linked up with the Dnieper group of Slavic migrants.
Pre-Kievan period [ edit ] 
Main article: Saqaliba Further information: Rus' Khaganate Viktor Vasnetsov. Boyan (1910). 
In the eighth and ninth centuries, the south branches of East Slavic tribes had to pay tribute to the Khazars, a Turkic-speaking people who adopted Judaism in the late eighth or ninth century and lived in the southern Volga and Caucasus regions. Roughly in the same period, the Ilmen Slavs and Krivichs were dominated by the Varangians of the Rus' Khaganate, who controlled the trade route between the Baltic Sea and the Byzantine Empire.
The earliest tribal centres of the East Slavs included Novgorod, Izborsk, Polotsk, Gnezdovo, and Kiev. Archaeology indicates that they appeared at the turn of the tenth century, soon after the Slavs and Finns of Novgorod had rebelled against the Norsemen and forced them to withdraw to Scandinavia. The reign of Oleg of Novgorod in the early tenth century witnessed the return of the Varangians to Novgorod and relocation of their capital to Kiev on the Dnieper. From this base, the mixed Varangian-Slavic population (known as the Rus) launched several expeditions against Constantinople.
At first the ruling elite was primarily Norse, but it was rapidly Slavicized by the mid-century. Sviatoslav I of Kiev (who reigned in the 960s) was the first Rus ruler with a Slavonic name.
Post-Kievan period [ edit ] 
The disintegration, or parcelling of the polity of Kievan Rus' in the 11th century resulted in considerable population shifts and a political, social, and economic regrouping. The resultant effect of these forces coalescing was the marked emergence of new peoples. [ 3 ] While these processes began long before the fall of Kiev, its fall expedited these gradual developments into a significant linguistic and ethnic differentiation among the Rus' people into Ukrainians, Belarusians, and Russians. [ 3 ] All of this was emphasized by the subsequent polities these groups migrated into: southwestern and western Rus', where the Ruthenian and later Ukrainian and Belarusian identities developed, was subject to Lithuanian and later Polish influence; [ 4 ] whereas the (Great) Russian ethnic identity that developed in the Muscovite northeast and the Novgorodian north remained distant, was defined by a more primitive style of life in a wilderness shared by Finnic-speaking tribes, and ultimately isolated from its Ruthene relatives. [ 3 ] 
Modern East Slavs [ edit ] 
Modern East Slavic peoples and ethnic groups include:
Russians Pomors, Polekhs, Goryuns, Kamchadals, Lipovan Russians, Cossacks (cultural community) Amur Cossacks, Astrakhan Cossacks, Baikal Cossacks, Don Cossacks, Kuban Cossacks, Orenburg Cossacks, Semirechye Cossacks, Siberian Cossacks, Terek Cossacks, Ural Cossacks, Ussuri Cossacks, . , . , Belarusians Poleszuks, . , . , Ukrainians Poleszuks, Hutsuls, Boykos, Lemkos, Rusyns (also considered as a separate nation) [ citation needed ] Carpathian Rusyns, Pannonian Rusyns, . , . , . 
Gallery [ edit ] 
Three generations of a Russian family, ca. 1910
, 1961 USSR postage stamp depicting Belarusian traditional costumes
, Ukrainians in traditional dress
, . 
See also [ edit ] 
List of early East Slavic states, Slavic peoples, List of Medieval Slavic tribes, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ EncyclopAdia Britannica On-line , ^ Richard Pipes. (1995). Russia Under the Old Regime . New York: Penguin Books. pp. 27-28 , ^ a b c Riasanovsky, Nicholas; Steinberg, Mark D. (2005). A History of Russia (7th ed.). New York: Oxford University Press. pp.61, 87. , ^ Magocsi, Paul Robert (2010). A History of Ukraine: A Land and Its Peoples . Toronto: University of Toronto Press. p.73. , D.D.DDNDDDNDDD DNDDDNN DNNN http://www.erlib.com/DDDNDDD_DDNDDDNDDD/DNDDDNN_DNNN/1;, . 
http://gumilevica.kulichki.net/VGV/vgv1.htm; http://www.rodstvo.ru/rus/hist/ver1.htm D DN.
, Look up east slavs in Wiktionary, the free dictionary., This article incorporatespublic domain material from websites or documents of the Library of Congress Country Studies. - Russia, . 
v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs , Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Slavic ethnic groups , East Slavs Belarusians Litvin , . , Russians Pomors , Cossacks , . , Ukrainians Boykos , Hutsuls , Lemkos , . , Rusyns, . , West Slavs Czechs Moravians , . , Kashubians, Poles Masovians , Masurians , Kociewiacy , Krakowiacy , Silesians , Warmiak , . , Sorbs, Slovaks, . , South Slavs Bosniaks, Bulgarians Pomaks , . , Croats Bunjevci , Burgenland Croats , Janjevci , KraAovani , Molise Croats , Aokci , . , Macedonians TorbeA , . , Montenegrins, Serbs Gorani , . , Slovenes, Yugoslavs, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=East_Slavs and oldid=628909016" Categories: East Slavic history, Kievan Rus', Slavic, Slavic ethnic groups, Ethnic groups in Europe by language family, . Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from December 2009, All articles needing additional references, "Related ethnic groups" needing confirmation, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from August 2014, Wikipedia articles incorporating text from the Library of Congress Country Studies, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, DNDDDNNDD, CatalA, AeAtina, Deutsch, IIIIIIII, EspaAol, UOOOU, FranAais, iei, OOOOOOO, aaaaaa, Hrvatski, DNDD, Italiano, LietuviA, DDDDDDDNDD, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, SlovenAina, DNDNDD / srpski, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Suomi, Svenska, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 9 October 2014 at 10:45.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
