
Economist Intelligence Unit - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Economist Intelligence Unit 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, Founded 1946, Headquarters London , England , Subsidiaries Bazian, Clearstate, The Economist Intelligence Unit ( EIU ) is an independent business within The Economist Group providing forecasting and advisory services through research and analysis, such as monthly country reports, five-year country economic forecasts, country risk service reports, and industry reports. [ 1 ] 
The EIU provides country, industry, and management analysis worldwide and incorporates the former Business International Corporation, a UK company acquired by its parent company in 1986.
The Economist Intelligence Unit also produces regular reports on "liveability" and cost of living of the world's major cities that receive wide coverage in international media. [ which? ] The Economist Intelligence Unit's Quality-of-Life Index is another noted report. [ according to whom? ] 
Its current Managing Director is Robin Bew, formerly the company's Editorial Director and Chief Economist.
Contents
1 Acquisitions 1.1 Bazian , 1.2 Clearstate , . , 2 Reports 2.1 CHAMPS , 2.2 Democracy Index , 2.3 Government Broadband Index (gBBi) , 2.4 Other reports , . , 3 See also , 4 References , 5 External links , . 
Acquisitions [ edit ] 
Bazian [ edit ] 
In December 2012, the Economist Intelligence Unit acquired Bazian, which specialises in the analysis and supply of clinical evidence on health services, treatment, and health technologies to assess clinical effectiveness and value for money. Headquartered in London, Bazian was founded by Vivek Muthu and Anna Donald in 1999.
Clearstate [ edit ] 
In April 2012, the Economist Intelligence Unit acquired Clearstate, a market intelligence firm offering customised strategic advisory and primary research solutions specifically addressing the healthcare and life sciences domains within the Asia Pacific. Clearstate was founded in 2006 and is headquartered in Singapore.
Reports [ edit ] 
CHAMPS [ edit ] 
In November 2010 the Economist Intelligence Unit released the Access China White Paper profiling the economies of the top 20 emerging cities in China, directed by Stephen Joske, China Forecasting, for the Economist Intelligence Unit. It was created to support a report conducted by The Economist Intelligence Unitas Access China Service, "CHAMPS: Chinaas fastest-growing cities". These cities are favoured for several reasons, including the breadth of business opportunities available, the on-going construction boom, rising home and vehicle ownership and spending on personal appliances. The report coined the acronym CHAMPS ( C hongqing, H efei, A nshan, M aanshan, P ingdingshan and S henyang). [ 2 ] 
Democracy Index [ edit ] 
In 2006 (with updates in 2008, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013), the Economist Intelligence Unit released the Democracy Index, an index compiled by examining the state of democracy in 167 countries, attempting to quantify this with an Index of Democracy focusing on five general categoriesaelectoral process and pluralism, civil liberties, functioning of government, political participation and political culture.
Government Broadband Index (gBBi) [ edit ] 
In January 2011, the Unit released the Government Broadband Index (gBBi) that assesses countries on the basis of government planning, as opposed to current broadband capability. With ambitious targets for both the speed and coverage of next-generation broadband networks, the developed countries of Southeast Asia scored highest. According to the index, Greece is the worst-performing country measured, due to its relatively low coverage target and drawn-out deployment schedule. Greece also suffers due to the considerable size of its public-funding commitment as a percentage of overall government budget revenues, and because its plan does little to encourage competition. [ 3 ] 
Other reports [ edit ] 
A full list of The EIU's special reports can be downloaded on their website.
See also [ edit ] 
E-readiness rankings, Quality-of-Life Index, Democracy Index, CHAMPS (China), . 
References [ edit ] 
^ Economist Intelligence Unit's web page "who we are" , ^ THE RISE OF THE aCHAMPSa - NEW REPORT MAPS BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY IN CHINAaS FASTEST GROWING CITIES , ^ South Korea tops the EIU's inaugural government broadband index and Japan comes a close second , External links [ edit ] 
Official website, Business Research website, CHAMPS White Paper, Democracy Index: Democracy under stress, Full speed ahead: The government broadband index Q1 2011, Bazian website, Clearstate website, . 
v , t , e , . The Economist Group , Publications 
Current The Economist , Intelligent Life , Roll Call , Congressional Quarterly , . , Former CFO , European Voice , . , Subsidiaries and divisions Economist Intelligence Unit , Economist Corporate Network, Capitol Advantage, Congress.org, . , People Walter Layton, 1st Baron Layton, James Wilson, . , Other Business International Corporation, Global Liveability Survey, . , Category, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Economist_Intelligence_Unit and oldid=614138199" Categories: Media companies of the United Kingdom, The Economist, . Hidden categories: All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases, Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from November 2013, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
EspaAol, FranAais, iei, aeaee, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 23 June 2014 at 20:16.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
