
President of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
President of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia AA(Redirected from Russian presidential election) Jump to: navigation, search 
Standard of the President of the Russian Federation , Residence Kremlin Senate, Moscow, Appointer Direct popular vote, Term length Six years (renewable once consecutively; afterwards, the officeholder must sit out for one term before being eligible again), Inaugural holder Boris Yeltsin, Formation 
1991
24 April 1991 (passage of presidency law [ 1 ] ), 24 May 1991 (constitutional amendments [ 2 ] ), 10 July 1991 (inauguration of the first President), . Modern status is defined by the Constitution of Russia, adopted on 12 December 1993, Succession Prime Minister of Russia, Salary 3.6 million rubles annually, Website (Russian) DNDDDDDDN.NN
(English) eng.kremlin.ru, Russia , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Russia , Constitution, Law, . Impeachment, Mental Health Law, Russian Criminal Code, Tax Code, . , Presidency President : Vladimir Putin, . Presidential Administration, Security Council, State Council, . , Executive Prime Minister: Dmitry Medvedev, . Government, Cabinet (14th) , . , Legislature Federal Assembly, Federation Council, State Duma, . , . , Judiciary Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, Prosecutor General, Supreme Court of Arbitration, Legal system, . , Elections Presidential elections, Legislative elections, Central Election Commission, Electoral geography, Political parties, . , Foreign relations United Nations, ArabaIsraeli conflict, . , Related topics Administrative divisions, Federal subjects, Regional parliaments, Armed forces, Martial law, . , Civic Chamber, Accounts Chamber, E-Government, Opposition, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The President of the Russian Federation (Russian: DNDDDDDDN DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD , Romanized: Prezident Rossiyskoy Federatsii ) is the head of state, Supreme Commander-in-chief and holder of the highest office within the Russian Federation. However, he is not the head of the executive branch. The Government of Russia is the highest organ of executive power. [ 3 ] The current president of Russia is Vladimir Putin.
In 1991 until 25 December of that year the office was briefly known as the President of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (Russian: DNDDDDDDN DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNNDDD DDDDNDNDDDDD DDNDDDDNNDNDNDDD DDNDNDDDDD ). According to the 1978 Russian Constitution, the President of Russia was a head of executive branch and headed the Council of Ministers of Russia. According to the current 1993 Constitution of Russia, the President of Russia is not a part of the Government of Russia, which exercises executive power.
In all cases where the President of the Russian Federation is unable to fulfill their duties, they shall be temporarily delegated to the Chairman of the Government of the Russian Federation, who becomes Acting President of Russia. [ 4 ] The Chairman of the Federation Council is the third important position after the President and the Prime Minister. In the case of incapacity of the President and Prime Minister, the chairman of the upper house of parliament becomes acting head of state. [ 5 ] [ 6 ] 
Contents
1 Selection process 1.1 Eligibility , 1.2 Election , . , 2 Insignia 2.1 Chain of office , 2.2 Standard (flag) , 2.3 Special copy of the Constitution , 2.4 Legal basis of the insignia , . , 3 Powers and duties 3.1 Guarantor of the Constitution , 3.2 Nominations , 3.3 Legislation , 3.4 Domestic policy , 3.5 Foreign policy , 3.6 Ceremonial duties , . , 4 Residences , 5 Political affiliation , 6 Transport , 7 List of presidents , 8 See also , 9 References , 10 External links , . 
Selection process [ edit ] 
Eligibility [ edit ] 
The Constitution of Russia contains a modified form of term limits on holders of the office: it does not limit the total number of terms that a President may serve, but places a limit on the number of successive terms (a person can hold office as President for two consecutive terms, but then is ineligible to serve again until sitting out one complete term).
A candidate for office must be a citizen of the Russian Federation of at least 35 years old, and 'permanently resided' in Russia for at least 10 years. [ 7 ] 
Election [ edit ] 
The election of the President is mainly regulated by the Presidential Election Law (PEL) and the Basic Guarantees of Electoral Rights (BGL). [ 8 ] 
The Federation Council calls the presidential elections. [ 9 ] If it does not call a presidential election that is due, the Central Election Commission will call the presidential election. [ 10 ] The Election Day is the second Sunday of the month and the presidential electoral constituency is the territory of the Russian Federation as a whole.
Each faction in the State Duma, the lower house of the Russian parliament has the right to nominate a candidate for the presidential elections. The minimum number of signatures for a presidential candidate fielded by a political party with no parliamentary representation is 100, 000, down from 2 million before amendments to the law. [ 11 ] 
The President is elected in a two-round system every six years, with a two consecutive term limitation. [ 12 ] Prior to 2012, the term of office was four years. If no candidate wins by an absolute majority in the first round, a second election round is held between two candidates with the most votes. [ 12 ] The last presidential election was in 2012, and the next is expected in 2018. [ 13 ] 
Insignia [ edit ] 
After the oath of office has been taken by the elected president, these following insignia are handed over to the president. These devices are used to display the rank of his office and are used on special occasions.
Chain of office [ edit ] 
Chain of office Presidential standard Presidential standard afloat 
The first insignia that is issued is the chain of office with an emblem. The central emblem is a red cross, with arms in equal size, charged with the Russian coat of arms. On the reverse of the cross, the words "Benefit, Honor and Glory" appear in the form of a circle. A golden wreath is used to connect the cross with the rest of the chain. There are 17 "links" in the emblem, with nine consisting of the Russian coat of arms. The other eight consist of a rosette, also bearing the motto "Benefit, Honor and Glory." At the inauguration of Vladimir Putin, the emblem was placed on a red pillow, positioned on the left side of the podium. According to the Presidential website, the emblem is placed inside the Kremlin and is used only on certain occasions.
Standard (flag) [ edit ] 
The standard is a square version of the Russian flag, charged in the center with the Russian coat of arms. Golden fringe is added to the standard. Copies of the standard are used inside his office, at the Kremlin, other state agencies, and while the president is traveling in a vehicle inside Russia. A 2:3 ratio version of the flag is used when the President is at sea. This is the most used symbol to denote the presence of the Russian President.
Special copy of the Constitution [ edit ] 
Vladimir Putin takes the Presidential Oath while placing his right hand on the Presidential copy of the Russian Constitution. 
The President also has a special copy of the Russian Constitution that is used during the inauguration. This copy has a hard, red cover with gold lettering. An image of the Russian coat of arms appears in silver. The special copy is kept in the Presidential Library.
Legal basis of the insignia [ edit ] 
These insignia and the procedure were established by the presidential decree 1138 from 5 August 1996. [ 14 ] and modified by decree 832 from 6 May 2000. [ 15 ] In the new decree the special copy of the Constitution was removed as the third symbol of the Russian Presidency; the other two symbols remained intact because they were and are regulated by separate decrees. Nonetheless, the special copy of the Constitution still exists and serves for inauguration purposes only without being officially presented as a symbol of the Russian Presidency.
Powers and duties [ edit ] 
Guarantor of the Constitution [ edit ] 
As the guarantor of the Constitution and the entire system of constitutional law, the President ensures that the constitutions, laws and regulations of the constituent territories of the Russian Federation be in full compliance with the countryas Constitution and federal laws.
Nominations [ edit ] 
The President is highly active in appointing top officials in the country. He nominates candidates for official state positions, who must ultimately be appointed based on parliamentary vote. The President submits nominations to the Federation Council, the upper house of the parliament, for judges of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Arbitration Court, as well as for Prosecutor General of Russia. A proposal to relieve the Prosecutor General of his duties must also be submitted to the Federation Council. The President submits to the State Duma, the lower house of parliament, nominations for appointment to the office of the Chairman of the Central Bank, and likewise submits to the State Duma any proposal to relieve the Chairman of the Central Bank of his duties. [ 16 ] 
Legislation [ edit ] 
Under the procedure stipulated by the Constitution, the President exercises his right to submit draft legislation, as well as the right to sign bills into law or to veto it.
The President has the right to suspend laws and regulations issued by executive bodies of Russiaas constituent territories if such laws and regulations contravene the Constitution, federal laws or international obligations of the Russian Federation, or violate human and civil rights and liberties, pending the resolution of the issue in an appropriate court.
The president is further empowered to grant federal pardons and reprieves, and to convene and adjourn either or both houses of Congress under extraordinary circumstances.
Other powers of the President in the sphere of legal activities and in his interaction with the Parliament include calling elections to the State Duma, dissolving the State Duma in certain cases, and calling referendum.
Domestic policy [ edit ] 
Under the Constitution, the President is not empowered to determine the full range of short-, middle-, and long-term objectives and targets of domestic policy, but only its basic guidelines. They are to be implemented both by the President himself and by the Government of Russia within the bounds of their authority. The Presidenta fundamental positions on domestic policy issues are expressed in his written decisions regarding draft federal constitutional laws and draft federal laws, as well as his letters explaining the reasons for rejecting draft federal laws.
Within the bounds of the authority granted to the head of state by the Constitution and other laws, the President also shapes the basic domestic policy guidelines by issuing legal regulations and through organizational and regulatory activity, such as issuing decrees and executive orders. Each year the President is required to make an Address to the Federal Assembly regarding the situation in the country and the internal and foreign policy of the state.
Foreign policy [ edit ] 
The President is invested with extensive rights to implement the state's foreign policy. The President determines Russia's position in international affairs and represents the state in international relations, conducts negotiations and signs ratification documents. The President appoints and recall diplomatic representatives of the Russia to foreign states and international organizations. These appointments are preceded by consultations with the respective committees or commissions of the two houses of the Federal Assembly. The President signs international treaties.
Ceremonial duties [ edit ] 
An important ceremonial role of the President is awarding state awards. State Awards of the Russian Federation are the highest form of official recognition given to individuals for service to the nation in the fields of defense, state-building, economics, science, culture, art, education, health care, public safety, rights advocacy and charity. The state awards of the Russian Federation include the title of Hero of the Russian Federation, Hero of Labour of the Russian Federation as well as orders, medals, emblems and honorary titles. New state honors and awards can be established by the President, who also presents these honors to the recipients in an official ceremony. A Commission for State Honors, which works on a voluntary basis, helps the President to objectively assess potential recipients.
Residences [ edit ] 
, This article is outdated . Please update this section to reflect recent events or newly available information. (November 2010) , The primary working President's residence is the Senate building (also known as 1st building) in the Moscow Kremlin complex. [ 17 ] Also the President can use the Grand Kremlin Palace (the ceremonial residence) and so called 14th building [ 17 ] (the reserve residence).
The current (since 2000) home President's residence is Novo-Ogaryovo (Russian: DDDD-DDDNNDD ). It was planned that it would remain at the disposal of Vladimir Putin after his term ended, as Gorki-9 (Russian: DDNDD-9 ) (also called Barvikha (Russian: DDNDDND ), but actually near it) had remained at the disposal of Boris Yeltsin after his retirement.
Also, the President has several vacation residences outside of Moscow. [ 18 ] 
Rus' (Russian: DNNN ), Zavidovo, Tver Oblast, Congress Palace or Constantine Palace complex (Russian: DDDNDN DDDDNDNNDD, DDDNNDDNDDDDNDDD DDDNDN ), Strelna, Saint Petersburg, reconstructed for 300th Saint Petersburg anniversary, Bocharov Ruchey (Russian: DDNDINDD DNNDID , lit. Bocharov creek), Sochi, Shuyskaya Chupa (Russian: DNIDNDDN DNDDI ) at a distance of 25km from Petrozavodsk, Karelia, Uzhin (Russian: DDDID ) at a distance of 20km from Valday, Novgorod Oblast, Volzhskiy Utyos sanatorium (Russian: DDIDDNDDD NNNN , lit. Cliff-upon-Volga) on Kuybyshev Reservoir shore, Tantal tourist centre (Russian: DDDNDID , lit. Tantalum) on Volga bank, at a distance of 25km from Saratov, Sosny (Russian: DDINDN , lit. pines) on Yenisei bank, near Krasnoyarsk, Angarskie hutora (Russian: DDDDINNDDD NNNDNDI , lit. Steadings of Angarsk) at a distance of 47km from Irkutsk, Maly istok (Russian: DDIDND DNNDID , lit. The small headspring) inside Ekaterineburg forestry, . 
Political affiliation [ edit ] 
None of the Russian presidents to date were ever a member of a political party in office or later. In 2012, commenting on stepping down from the post of United Russia party leader, Vladimir Putin said "The constitution doesnat forbid the president to be a member of any party, but in the spirit of how our political life has evolved, a president is first and foremost a consolidating figure for all the political forces of the country, for all citizens". [ 19 ] 
Transport [ edit ] 
National transport services for the Russian President are provided by the Special Purpose Garage (SPG). [ 20 ] The SPG is a unit within the Federal Protective Service.
Limousines ZiL, Mercedes-Benz, . , Escort cars Mercedes-Benz (including G-Wagens), Chevrolet, . , Honorary escort (motorcycles) Ural, BMW, . , . Ilyushin Il-96-300PU - The official Russian presidential aircraft 
Air transport services for the President are provided by the airline company Rossiya. [ 21 ] 
Main article: Russian presidential aircraft Airplanes for long-distance travel Ilyushin Il-96-300PU (long-range) a main aircraft, Ilyushin Il-62M (long-range), Dassault Falcon 900 (long-range), Tupolev Tu-154 (medium-range), Yakovlev Yak-40 (short-range), Tupolev Tu-214PU, . , Helicopters Mil Mi-8, . , . 
The presidential aircraft uses the same colour scheme as standard Rossiya aircraft, except for the use of the Russian coat of arms or the Presidential Standard on the empennage instead of the flag of Russia.
In the spring of 2013 a helipad was constructed in the Moscow Kremlin. According to the Chief of the Kremlin Property Agency construction of a helicopter pad for the President costed 200 million rubles (about $6.4 mln). The helipad is located in the Kremlin's Tainitsky Garden close to exterior walls. [ 22 ] 
List of presidents [ edit ] 
Main article: List of presidents of Russia 
Name Term of office Length of term Boris Yeltsin, 1991a1999, 7000800000000000000 8years, 7002174000000000000 174days, Vladimir Putin (1st tenure) , 1999a2008, 7000800000000000000 8years, 7002128000000000000 128days, Dmitry Medvedev, 2008a2012, 7000400000000000000 4years, 5000000000000000000 0days, Vladimir Putin (2nd tenure) , 2012apresent, 7000200000000000000 2years, 7002185000000000000 185days, See also [ edit ] 
List of heads of state of Russia, List of leaders of Russia, President of the Soviet Union, Russian presidential administration, Security Council of Russia, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ RSFSR Law "On President of the Russian SFSR , ^ RSFSR Law on amendments to the Constitution of the RSFSR , ^ I.E. Kozlova and O. E. Kutafin, Konstitutsionnoe Pravo Rossii (Constitutional Law of Russia) (4th ed, 2006) p. 383 , ^ "DDDNNDNNNDN DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD". Eng.constitution.kremlin.ru . Retrieved 2014-03-03 . , ^ "DDNN DNDDNDDDNDDN DDDDND DDDDNDNDD DD a NND NNDNDD DDNN D NNNDDD. D NDNNDD DDDDDNDDNDDDDNND DNDDDDDDND D DNDDNDND DDDDDD DNDDNDDDNDDN DDNNDDD DDDDNN DDNDDDDDND DDDDDD DDDDDDDDNN DDNNDDNNNDD.". Ria.ru . Retrieved 2014-03-03 . , ^ " " DDNDDN N DDN NNDNND DDND D DDNNDDNNNDD DNDDNDDDNDDN DDDDND DDDDNDNDD? DDNDDN NND NND NDDDNDNDN, DD DD NDNDNNDDDNNN, DD DDDNNDNDN DDNNDNDDD." - DDNDDD DDNNDD". Newstube.ru . Retrieved 2014-03-03 . , ^ The Constitution of the Russian Federation: A Contextual Analysis, Henderson, Jane , ^ thato, phengo; begang, Rita James (2009). Voting and Elections the World Over . Global Perspectives on Social Issues Series. Lexington Books. p.79. ISBN978-0-7391-3090-2. , ^ Constitution of Russia article 102:1 , ^ Kozlova and O. E. Kutafin, Konstitutsionnoe Pravo Rossii (Constitutional Law of Russia) (4th ed, 2006) p. 373. , ^ "Medvedev Signs Off on Election, Party Signature Laws". RIA Novosti. 2 May 2012 . Retrieved 1 July 2012 . , ^ a b Gueorguieva and Simon 2009, p.79. , ^ Herszenhorn, David M. (5 March 2012). "Observers Detail Flaws in Russian Election". New York Times . Retrieved 5 March 2012 . , ^ CoDpaDDe DaDoDoDaNeDNcNDa DoccDDcDoD DeDepaNDD 1996, a33, ar. 3976 , ^ CoDpaDDe DaDoDoDaNeDNcNDa DoccDDcDoD DeDepaNDD 2000, a19, ar. 2068 , ^ "Authority and Duties of the President". Archive.kremlin.ru . Retrieved 2014-03-03 . , ^ a b The Presidential Residences (English) , ^ Vladimir Putin Residences, Kommersant, #18(3594), 7 February 2007 , ^ "Putin steps down as United Russia head". Themoscownews.com. 2012-04-24 . Retrieved 2014-03-03 . , ^ President's transports. Cars [ dead link ] (Russian) , ^ President's transports. Air transport at the Wayback Machine (archived April 23, 2008) [ dead link ] (Russian) , ^ "Putinas Kremlin Helipad Cost $6.4 Mln a Official". RIA Novosti . Retrieved 18 May 2013 . , Attribution note: Material from the powers and duties section of this article was originally published by the website of the Office of the President of Russia.
External links [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Presidents of Russia ., Official site of the President of Russia, AVladimir Putin will once again become Russiaas presidentA - The Economist, 3 March 2012, . 
v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Presidents of the Russian Federation , Boris Yeltsin, Alexander Rutskoy, Boris Yeltsin, Vladimir Putin, Dmitry Medvedev, Vladimir Putin, . , v , t , e , . Heads of state and government of Europe , Heads
of state 
UN members 
and observers Albania, Andorra, Armenia 1 , Austria, Azerbaijan 1 , Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus 1 , Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia 1 , Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan 1 , Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russian Federation 1 , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey 1 , Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , Partially recognised 2 Abkhazia 1 , Kosovo, Northern Cyprus 1 , South Ossetia 1 , . , Unrecognised states 3 Nagorno-Karabakh 1 , Transnistria, . , Heads of
government 
UN members 
and observers Albania, Andorra, Armenia 1 , Austria, Azerbaijan 1 , Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus 1 , Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia 1 , Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan 1 , Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russian Federation 1 , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey 1 , Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , Partially recognised 2 Abkhazia 1 , Kosovo, Northern Cyprus 1 , South Ossetia 1 , . , Unrecognised states 3 Nagorno-Karabakh 1 , Transnistria, . , Partially or entirely in Asia, depending on the definition of the EuropeaAsia border., States recognised by at least one United Nations member., States not recognised by any United Nations members., v , t , e , . Government of the Russian Federation , Offices subordinated to the President of Russia , Ministry of Internal Affairs Police of the Russian Federation, Internal Troops, . , Ministry for Affairs of Civil Defence, Emergencies and Disaster Relief Russian State Fire Service, State Inspectorate for Small Ships, . , Ministry of Foreign Affairs Agency of CIS affairs, . , Ministry of Defence Service of Military-Technical Cooperation, Service of Technical and Export Control, Service for Defence Contracts, Agency of Special Construction, . , Ministry of Justice Federal Penitentiary Service, Service of Court Bailiffs, . , Presidential Services
and Directorates Foreign Intelligence Service, Federal Security Service, Federal Drug Control Service of Russia, Federal Protective Service, Special Communications Service, State Courier Service, Chief Directorate of Special Programs of the President, Federal Financial Monitoring, Directorate of the President, . , Offices subordinated to Government of Russia head by the Chairman , Ministry of Health Service of Supervision in the Sphere of Public Health Services, Medical and Biologic Agency, . , Ministry of Culture Federal Archival Agency, . , Ministry of Education
and Science Service for Supervision in the Sphere of Education and Science, Service for Intellectual Property, Patents and Trademarks, Agency of Education, Agency of Science and Innovation, Federal Youth Agency, . , Ministry of Natural Resources
and Environment Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring, Service of Supervision in Sphere of Wildlife Management, Agency of Water Resources, Agency on the use of Mineral Resources, . , Ministry of Industry and Trade Agency of Technical Regulation and Metrology, . , Ministry of Regional Development , Ministry for Development of Russian Far East , Ministry of Crimean Affairs , Ministry of Communications
and Mass Media Agency of Communication, Agency on Information Technologies, Federal Agency on Press and Mass Communications of the Russian Federation, Federal Service for Supervision of Communications, Information Technology and Mass Media, . , Ministry of Agriculture Service of Veterinary and Phytosanitary Supervision, Agency of Forestry, Agency of Fisheries, . , Ministry of Sport , Ministry of Construction, Housing and Utilities , Ministry of Transport Federal Service of Supervision of Transport, Air Transport Agency, Road Agency, Agency of Railway Transport, Agency of Sea and River Transport, . , Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Federal Service for Labour and Employment, . , Ministry of Finance Federal Tax Service, Service of Insurance Supervision, Service of Financial-Budgetary Supervision, Treasury, . , Ministry of Economic
Development Agency for State Reserves, Agency for State Property Management, State Statistics, . , Ministry of Energy Russian Energy Agency, . , Governmental committees, services and agencies Federal Migratory Service, Federal Antimonopoly Service, Federal Service for Supervision of Consumer Rights Protection and Human Welfare, Service for Hydrometeorology and the Monitoring of the Environment, Federal Customs Service, Service of Ecological, Technological and Nuclear Supervision, Service on Tariffs, Federal Financial Monitoring Service, Financial Market Service, Federal Space Agency, Agency for Deliveries of Military and Special Equipment of Material Means, Agency on the Arrangement of the State Boundary, Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography, . , v , t , e , . Heads of state of the Group of 20 , Kirchner (AR), Elizabeth II (federal representative: Cosgrove, state representatives: list) (AU), Rousseff (BR), Elizabeth II (federal representative Johnston, provincial representatives: list) (CA), Xi (CN), Van Rompuy (EU), Hollande (FR), Gauck (DE), Mukherjee (IN), Widodo (ID), Napolitano (IT), Akihito (JP), PeAa Nieto (MX), Putin ( RU ), Abdullah (SA), Zuma (ZA), Park (KR), ErdoAan (TR), Elizabeth II (UK), Obama (US), . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=President_of_Russia and oldid=630967487#Requirements_to_hold_office" Categories: Presidents of Russia, Government of Russia, Russian leaders, 1991 establishments in Russia, . Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links, Articles with dead external links from March 2014, Articles with Russian-language external links, Articles containing Russian-language text, Wikipedia articles in need of updating from November 2010, All Wikipedia articles in need of updating, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, Use dmy dates from June 2013, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, DDDN, AzErbaycanca, DDNODNNND, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, Brezhoneg, CatalA, DODDNDD, Dansk, Deutsch, TTTTTTTTTT, Eesti, IIIIIIII, EspaAol, Esperanto, UOOOU, FranAais, Galego, iei, OOOOOOO, Bahasa Indonesia, Aslenska, Italiano, aaaaaaa, Latina, LatvieAu, LietuviA, DDDDDDDNDD, aeaee, OEzbekcha, Polski, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, Scots, Simple English, SlovenAina, SlovenAAina, DNDNDD / srpski, Suomi, Svenska, DDNDNND/tatarAa, aaa, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, OOOU, Tiang Viat, ce, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 24 October 2014 at 19:07.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
