
Electoral geography of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Electoral geography of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article may be expanded with text translated from the corresponding article in the Russian Wikipedia . (October 2013) Click [show] on the right to read important instructions before translating. View a machine-translated version of the Russian article. , Google's machine translation is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. , Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. , After translating, {{TranslatedruDNDNDND DDNN (DDNNDN)}} must be added to the talk page to ensure copyright compliance. , For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation. , . , Red Belt [ edit ] 
Russia , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Russia , Constitution, Law, . Impeachment, Mental Health Law, Russian Criminal Code, Tax Code, . , Presidency President: Vladimir Putin, . Presidential Administration, Security Council, State Council, . , Executive Prime Minister: Dmitry Medvedev, . Government, Cabinet (14th) , . , Legislature Federal Assembly, Federation Council, State Duma, . , . , Judiciary Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, Prosecutor General, Supreme Court of Arbitration, Legal system, . , Elections Presidential elections, Legislative elections, Central Election Commission, Electoral geography , Political parties, . , Foreign relations United Nations, ArabaIsraeli conflict, . , Related topics Administrative divisions, Federal subjects, Regional parliaments, Armed forces, Martial law, . , Civic Chamber, Accounts Chamber, E-Government, Opposition, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The Red Belt or "Red Zone" (DNDNDND DDNN) was a group of Russian regions with a stable support for the Communist Party in local and federal elections. The term came into wide use from the mid-1990s after Communist candidates won a number of regions from non-Communist opposition candidates. The "red zone" comprised predominantly agricultural areas of Central Russia, the subsidized national republics of the North Caucasus, as well as a number of the southern regions of Siberia and the Far East. With the coming to power of Vladimir Putin (31 December 1999) and reduced support for the Communist Party, the "red belt" ceased to exist.
Reasons for Formation [ edit ] 
In 1999, the regions of the "red zone", according to the analyst Rostislav Turovsky, included the Smolensk, Bryansk, Kaluga, Orel, Kursk, Belgorod, Ryazan, Lipetsk, Tambov, Voronezh, Penza, Ulyanovsk, Saratov, Volgograd and Astrakhan regions. In these areas, featuring a high proportion of rural population with the appropriate mentality, [ clarification needed ] voters increased inherent conservatism. However, with the economic development of different regions, they are not among the most depressed. Turov noted strong support for the Communist Party in the North Caucasus (except in Ingushetia). In the territories and regions of the North Caucasus, a predominantly Russian population of this area support Communist candidates, in his opinion, due to the same reasons as in the rest of the "red zone". In the national republics ([Karachay-Cherkessia]], [Dagestan]] and [North Ossetia]]) support is due to nostalgia for the Soviet era, when these poor areas remained ethno-political and socio- economic stability . In the Urals, and to the east of them, Turovskii notes the strong pro-communist sentiment in regions such as Orenburg, Kurgan, Omsk, Novosibirsk, Chita Oblast and Altai Krai, as well as in agricultural areas and districts of mostly Russian national composition (Altai Republic, Ust-Orda Buryat AO and the Jewish AO)[1].According to political scientist Alexander Kanev, "in fact the so-called red zone of the 1990s was no more than a residual support for the former communist government. As soon as the new government is "well established" and returned to the familiar (Soviet) rhetoric and behavior, it has become an electoral power base inherit the previous."
External links [ edit ] 
Geo-electoral structure of Russia (N.Grishin), . Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Electoral_geography_of_Russia and oldid=632912687" Categories: Electoral geography, Elections in Russia, Politics of Russia, . Hidden categories: Articles to be expanded from October 2013, All articles to be expanded, Geography articles needing translation from Russian Wikipedia, Wikipedia articles needing clarification, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DNNNDDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 8 November 2014 at 03:42.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
