
European Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
European Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search For other uses, see Central Russia (disambiguation). Russia in Europe and Asia. Ethnic map of European Russian Empire prior to the outbreak of the World War I. 
European Russia (also Western Russia or Central Russia ) refers to the Western areas of Russia that lie within Europe, comprising roughly 3, 960, 000 square kilometres (1, 528, 560mi 2 ) and spanning across 38f Europe. Its eastern border is defined by the Ural Mountains and in the south, it is defined by the border with Kazakhstan. This area includes Moscow and Saint Petersburg, the two largest cities in Russia.
Roughly 77f the entire Russian population (about 110, 000, 000 people out of a total of circa 143, 000, 000) lives in Western Russia, at an average of 27 persons per km 2 (69.9 per mi 2 ). [ 1 ] :6 [ 1 ] :10 Even though 75f Russia's territory lies within Asia, the Asian part of Russia accommodates only 22f its population at 2.5 persons per km 2 (6.5 per mi 2 ). [ 1 ] :6 
The term "European Russia" was used in the Russian Empire to refer to traditional East Slavic territories under Russian control, including what is now Belarus and most of Ukraine (Dnieper Ukraine). [ citation needed ] 
References [ edit ] 
^ a b c Vishnevsky, Anatoly (15 August 2000). "Replacement Migration: Is it a solution for Russia?" (PDF). EXPERT GROUP MEETING ON POLICY RESPONSES TO POPULATION AGEING AND POPULATION DECLINE /UN/POP/PRA/2000/14 . United Nations Population Division, Department of Economic and Social Affairs. pp.6, 10 . Retrieved 2008-01-14 . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia , Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Coordinates: 55AN 40AE i / i 55AN 40AE i / 55; 40 
, This Russian location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v , t , e , . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=European_Russia and oldid=620169560" Categories: BelarusaRussia border, EstoniaaRussia border, FinlandaRussia border, LatviaaRussia border, LithuaniaaRussia border, NorwayaRussia border, PolandaRussia border, RussiaaUkraine border, Geography of Europe, Traditional subdivisions of Russia, Russia geography stubs, . Hidden categories: All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from December 2013, Coordinates on Wikidata, All stub articles, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, DDDDNNNDDN, DNDDDNNDD, CatalA, EspaAol, FranAais, Frysk, iei, Hrvatski, Bahasa Indonesia, Italiano, aaaaaaa, Latina, DDDDDDDNDD, aaaaaa, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, DNDNDD / srpski, Svenska, Tiang Viat, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 7 August 2014 at 01:04.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
