
Executive (government) - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Executive (government) 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia AA(Redirected from Executive power) Jump to: navigation, search 
Part of the Politics series on, Executive government Head of state Monarch, President, . , Government Head of government Chancellor, Chief Executive, Chief Minister, First Minister, Premier, Prime Minister, . , . , Cabinet 
Cabinet collective responsibility, . , Ministry Minister, Secretary, . , . , Other Governor, Mayor, . , . , Systems Presidential, Semi-presidential (cohabitational) , Parliamentary (Westminster) , . , Lists National leaders, National governments, Heads of State and Government, . , Politics portal, v , t , e , . , Part of a series on , Politics , Primary topics Index of politics articles, Politics by country, Politics by subdivision, Political economy, Political history, Political history of the world, Political philosophy, . , Political systems Anarchism, . City-state, Democracy, . Federacy, Feudalism, . Dictatorship, Directorialism, . Meritocracy, Monarchy, . Parliamentary, Presidential, . Semi-presidential, Theocracy, . , Academic disciplines Political science
(political scientists) , International relations
(theory) , Comparative politics, . , Public administration Bureaucracy (street-level) , Adhocracy, . , Policy Public policy (doctrine) , . Public interest, Foreign policy, . , Organs of government Separation of powers, . Legislature, Executive , . Judiciary, Electoral branch, . , Related topics Sovereignty, Theories of political behavior, Political psychology, Biology and political orientation, Political organisations, . , Subseries Electoral systems, . Elections, . , Politics portal , v , t , e , . , The executive is the part of the government that has sole authority and responsibility for the daily administration of the state. The executive branch executes, or enforces the law. The division of power into separate branches of government is central to the idea of the separation of powers.
The separation of powers system is designed to distribute authority among several branches a an attempt to preserve individual liberty in response to tyrannical leadership throughout history. The executive officer is not supposed to make laws (the role of the legislature) or interpret them (the role of the judiciary). The role of the executive is to enforce the law as written by the legislature and interpreted by the judicial system.
The executive can be the source of certain types of law, including decree or executive order. Executive bureaucracies are commonly the source of regulations.
Executive means leader of office or many office run. The top leadership roles of the executive branch may include:
head of stateaoften the de jure leader, the chief public representative and living symbol of national unity. head of governmentaoften the de facto leader, prime minister, overseeing the administration of all affairs of state. defence ministeraoverseeing the armed forces, determining military policy and managing external safety., interior ministeraoverseeing the police forces, enforcing the law and managing internal safety., foreign ministeraoverseeing the diplomatic service, determining foreign policy and managing foreign relations., finance ministeraoverseeing the treasury, determining fiscal policy and managing national budget., justice ministeraoverseeing criminal prosecutions, corrections, enforcement of court orders., . , . , . 
In a presidential system the leader of the executive branch is both the head of state and head of government . In a parliamentary system, a cabinet minister responsible to the legislature is the head of government, while the head of state is usually a largely ceremonial monarch or president. In the United States this branch of the government is controlled by the President(United States) and his Cabinet(government(United States))
See also [ edit ] 
Constitution, Diarchy, Legal reform, Rule according to higher law, Separation of powers, . 
Notes [ edit ] 
v , t , e , . Civil service in the executive branch of Government , Concepts Public sector, Government agency, Bureaucracy, Bureaucrat, Technocrat, Diplomat, Public administration, Public policy, Public services, . , Civil services Australia, Bangladesh, Brazil, Canada, China, European Union, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, Nigeria, Northern Ireland, Pakistan, Singapore, Sri Lanka, United Kingdom, United States, . , Categories National civil service commissions, Government occupations, Civil service by country, . , See also: Civil service reform in developing countries, . , v , t , e , . Law , Core subjects Administrative law, Constitutional law, Contract, Criminal law, Deed, Equity, Evidence, International law, Law of obligations, Procedure Civil, Criminal, . , Property law, Public law, Restitution, Statutory law, Tort, . , Other subjects Agricultural law, Aviation law, Banking law, Bankruptcy, Commercial law, Competition law, Conflict of laws, Conservation law, Construction law, Consumer protection, Corporate law, Cyberlaw, Election law, Energy law, Entertainment law, Environmental law, Family law, Financial regulation, Health law, Immigration law, Intellectual property, International criminal law, International human rights, International slavery laws, Labour law, Law of war, Maritime law, Media law, Military law, Physical law, Probate Estate, Will and testament, . , Product liability, Public international law, Scientific law, Space law, Sports law, Tax law, Trust law, . , Sources of law Charter, Constitution, Custom, Divine right, Human rights, Natural and legal rights, Precedent Case law, . , . , Law making Codification, Decree Edict, Executive order, Proclamation, . , Legislation Delegated legislation, Regulation, Rulemaking, . , Promulgation, Repeal, Statutory law Statute, Act of Parliament, Act of Congress, . , Treaty, . , Legal systems Civil law, Common law, Chinese law, Legal pluralism, Natural law, Religious law Canon law, Hindu law, Jewish law, Sharia, . , Roman law, Socialist law, Statutory law, Xeer, Yassa, . , Legal theory Critical legal studies, Comparative law, Feminist, Law and economics, Legal formalism, History, International legal theory, Principle of legality, Rule of law, Sociology, . , Jurisprudence Adjudication, Administration of justice, Criminal justice, Dispute resolution, Fiqh, Lawsuit/Litigation, Legal opinion, Legal remedy, Judgment, Judicial review, Jurisdiction, Jury, Justice, Practice of law Attorney, Barrister, Counsel, Lawyer, Legal representation, Prosecutor, Solicitor, . , Question of fact, Question of law, Trial, Trial advocacy, Trier of fact, Verdict, . , Legal institutions Bureaucracy, The bar, Civil society, Court, Election commission, Executive , Judiciary, Law enforcement, Legal education Law school, . , Legislature, Military, Police, Tribunal, . , Category , Index , Outline , Portal , . , v , t , e , . Separation of powers , Typical branches Executive , Legislature, Judiciary, . , Atypical branches Civil service commission, . , By country Australia, United Kingdom, United States, Singapore, . , See also Fusion of powers, Separation of duties, Judicial independence, Judicial review, Government performance auditing, Dual mandate, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Executive_(government) and oldid=632616471" Categories: Constitutional law, Government institutions, Separation of powers, Public law, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, Asturianu, AzErbaycanca, BAn-lAm-gA, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, DNDDDNNDD, Bosanski, CatalA, AeAtina, Dansk, Deutsch, Eesti, IIIIIIII, EspaAol, Esperanto, Euskara, UOOOU, FranAais, Frysk, Galego, iei, OOOOOOO, Hrvatski, Bahasa Indonesia, Aslenska, Italiano, Basa Jawa, aaaaa, DNDNDNDD-DDDDNDN, Latina, LatvieAu, LietuviA, DDDDDDDNDD, aaaaaa, Bahasa Melayu, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, Occitan, UUOU, PlattdAAtsch, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, Runa Simi, DNNNDDD, Scots, Simple English, SlovenAina, SlovenAAina, Soomaaliga, DNDNDD / srpski, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Svenska, Tagalog, aaaaa, aaa, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, Tiang Viat, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 5 November 2014 at 22:37.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
