
Extreme points of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Extreme points of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
This is a list of the extreme points and extreme elevations in Russia.
The northernmost and easternmost points of Russia coincide with those of Eurasia (both for the mainland and including the islands).
The extreme points of the Soviet Union were identical, except that the southernmost point of the Soviet Union was Kushka in Turkmenistan, and the extreme elevation was the Communism Peak in Tajikistan, at 7, 495 m.
From 1799 until 1867 the easternmost point of the Russian Empire was located in North America, on the border between Russian Alaska and British North America, which superimposed on the then International Date Line. The westernmost point of the Empire was located at Pyzdry in Congress Poland from 1815 until its occupation by German and Austro-Hungarian troops in 1915. Kushka in present-day Turkmenistan had been the southernmost point of the Empire since 1885. Again, until the Alaska Purchase, the peak of Mount McKinley was the extreme point of elevation in the Empire, at 6, 194 m above sea level.
The remaining extreme points were the same as the extreme points of the Soviet Union.
Extreme coordinates [ edit ] 
Including islands and exclaves 
Northernmost point a Cape Fligely, Franz Josef Land, Nenets Autonomous Okrug ( 81A50a35aN 59A14a22aE i / i 81.84306AN 59.23944AE i / 81.84306; 59.23944 i ( Cape Fligely (Northernmost point) ) ), Southernmost point a Mount Bazardyuzyu, Republic of Dagestan ( 41A13a14aN 47A51a28aE i / i 41.22056AN 47.85778AE i / 41.22056; 47.85778 i ( Mount Bazardyuzyu (Southernmost point) ) ), Westernmost point a Narmeln, Vistula Spit, Kaliningrad Oblast (19A38'E), Easternmost point 1 a Big Diomede Island, Chukotka Autonomous Okrug ( 65A47aN 169A01aW i / i 65.783AN 169.017AW i / 65.783; -169.017 i ( Diomede Islands (Easternmost point) ) ), . 
Contiguous mainland only 
Northernmost point a Cape Chelyuskin, Krasnoyarsk Krai (77A43'N), Southernmost point a Mount Bazardyuzyu, Republic of Dagestan (41A12'N), Westernmost point a near Lavry, Pskov Oblast (27A19'E), Easternmost point 1 a Cape Dezhnev (East Cape), Chukotka Autonomous Okrug (169A40'W), . 
Towns and cities 
The town of Pevek Northernmost a Pevek, Chukotka Autonomous Okrug (69A42aN), Southernmost a Derbent, Republic of Dagestan (42A04aN), Westernmost a Baltiysk, Kaliningrad Oblast (19A55aE), Easternmost a Anadyr, Chukotka Autonomous Okrug (177A30aE), . 
Permanent settlements 
Northernmost a Dikson (73A30aN), Southernmost a Kurush, Republic of Dagestan (41A16aN), Westernmost a Baltiysk, Kaliningrad Oblast (19A55aE), Easternmost 1 a Uelen, Chukotka Autonomous Okrug (169A48aW), . 
1 according to the path of the International Date Line. 
Elevation extremes [ edit ] 
Mount Elbrus Lowest point: Caspian Sea level: a28 m, Highest point: west summit of Mount Elbrus: 5, 642 m, . 
See also [ edit ] 
Extreme points of Earth, Geography of Russia, . 
v , t , e , . Extreme points of Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , v , t , e , . Extreme points of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia , Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points , Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Extreme_points_of_Russia and oldid=604999033" Categories: Geography of Russia, Extreme points by country, Lists of landforms of Russia, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
AeAtina, FranAais, Bahasa Indonesia, Magyar, Norsk nynorsk, PortuguAs, DNNNDDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 20 April 2014 at 10:28.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
