
Radical nationalism in Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Radical nationalism in Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . 
, It has been suggested that this article be merged into Russian nationalism . (Discuss) Proposed since December 2012. , The neutrality of this article is disputed . Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please do not remove this message until the dispute is resolved. (September 2012) , This article includes a list of references, but its sources remain unclear because it has insufficient inline citations . Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (September 2012) , This article may contain improper references to self-published sources . Please help improve it by removing references to unreliable sources, where they are used inappropriately. (September 2012) , Radical nationalism in Russia refers to some far-right and some far-left extremist nationalist movements and organizations. Of note, the term "nationalist" in Russia often refers to radical nationalism. However, it is often mixed up with "fascism" in Russia. While this terminology does not exactly match the formal definitions of fascism, the common denominator is chauvinism. In all other respects the positions vary over a wide spectrum. Some movements hold a political position that the state must be an instrument of nationalism (such as the National Bolshevik Party, headed by Eduard Limonov), while others (for example, Russian National Unity) resolve to vigilante tactics against the perceived "enemies of Russia" without going into politics.
Historically, the first prototype of such groups started with the Black Hundreds in Imperial Russia. More recent antisemitic, supremacist and neo-fascist organizations include Pamyat, Russian National Socialist Party and others.
In 1997, the Moscow Anti-Fascist Center estimated there were 40 (nationalist) extremist groups operating in Russia. [ 1 ] The same source reported 35 extremist newspapers, the largest among these being Zavtra .
In spite of repression by governmental authorities, a right-wing extremist movement has established itself in Russia. [ 2 ] 
Contents
1 Parties, organizations, movements described as radical nationalist , 2 See also , 3 References , 4 External links , 5 Bibliography , . 
Parties, organizations, movements described as radical nationalist [ edit ] 
Black Hundreds, Eurasia Party, Mladorossi, National Bolshevik Party, National Bolshevik Front, National Salvation Front, Pamyat, LDPR, People's National Party, Russian National Socialist Party, Russian National Union, Russian National Unity, Slavic Union, . 
See also [ edit ] 
Russian nationalism, Greater Russia, Racism in Russia, Fascism in Russia, Russia for Russians, National Bolshevism, Neo-Sovietism, Neo-Stalinism, Eurasianism, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ Chronology of events - NUPI , ^ Racist Violence and Neo-Nazi Movements in Russia, Robert Kusche, Dresden, August 2013 , External links [ edit ] 
Nationalism and xenophobia in Russia, SOVA Center, an independent authority that produces reports and daily updates on the rise of nationalism and xenophobia in the Russian Federation, Ultra-nationalist, fascist and neo-Nazi movements in Russia Infoshop News, Western Perceptions of Russian Nationalism (or this link), Russian Nationalism and Putin's Russia ([1]), On menace of nationalism in Russia. "Yabloko" Party view (in Russian), Vladislav Kelle. Nationalism and the future of Russia (in Russian), Racial violence escalates in Russia Jane's Intelligence Review, 5 September 2006, National Socialist Society Radical national socialist organization, Nordrus - an organization of "Russian radical nationalists" (in Russian), (English) "VELVET" FASCISM. Ultra-nationalist ideas are popular among the literary mainstream and political saloons by Andrey Kolesnikov, (English) Russian Fascism and Russian Fascists by Kirill Buketov , (English) Radical nationalism in Russia and efforts to counteract it in 2006 , . 
Bibliography [ edit ] 
Stephen D. Shenfield. Russian Fascism: Traditions, Tendencies, Movements, 2001 ISBN 0-7656-0634-8 or ISBN 978-0-7656-0634-1, Russian: D. D. DDDD. DDNNDDNDDD D DDNDDDDDDDD D DDNNDD. 1825-1921. D., DDDDDDDDDDD , 2002, Russian: D. DDDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDNDND DDNDDDDDDDD D DDNNDD: DNDNDDDDDN D DNDNDDDDDDNNDDD DDDNN NDNNNDDDDNDDD DNNDDDDNNDDD., Verkhovsky, Alexander (December 2000). "Ultra-nationalists in Russia at the onset of Putin's rule". Nationalities Papers 28 (4 pages=707a722). doi:10.1080/00905990020009692. , . Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Radical_nationalism_in_Russia and oldid=604620241" Categories: Far-right politics in Russia, Russian nationalism, . Hidden categories: Articles to be merged from December 2012, All articles to be merged, NPOV disputes from September 2012, All NPOV disputes, Articles lacking in-text citations from September 2012, All articles lacking in-text citations, Articles lacking reliable references from September 2012, Articles containing Russian-language text, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
, . Edit links This page was last modified on 17 April 2014 at 17:33.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
