
Politics of the Faroe Islands - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of the Faroe Islands 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Faroe Islands , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
the Faroe Islands , Prime Minister Kaj Leo Johannesen , Cabinet, LAgting (parliament) Speaker: JAgvan A Lakjuni Members , Political parties, Recent elections General: 2011, 2008, 2004, . , Administrative divisions, Faroese members of the
Danish Parliament , . , See also Politics of Denmark, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The politics of the Faroe Islands function within the framework of a parliamentary representative democratic dependency, whereby the Prime Minister of the Faroe Islands is the head of government, [ 1 ] and of a multi-party system. The Faroe Islands are politically associated with the Kingdom of Denmark, but have been self-governing since 1948. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the LAgting. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature and the responsibility of Denmark. As of October 25, 2007, the Faroe Islands became one electoral district.
Contents
1 Executive branch 1.1 Current government , . , 2 Legislative branch , 3 Political parties and elections , 4 Administrative divisions , 5 International affairs , 6 Further reading , 7 See also , 8 References , 9 External links , . 
Executive branch [ edit ] 
Main office holders Office Name Party Since High Commissioner, Dan M. Knudsen, January 1, 2008, Prime Minister, Kaj Leo Johannesen, Union Party, September 26, 2008, The high commissioner is appointed by the Queen of Denmark. The High Commissioner has a seat in the LAgting, he or she is allowed to speak in the LAgting regarding common Danish/Faroese affairs, but he or she is not allowed to vote. [ 2 ] Following legislative elections, the leader of the party that wins the most seats is usually given the initiative to establish a new coalition by the Faroese Parliament, unless the current LAgmaAur ( Prime Minister in English) is still in power. However, if he fails, the Chairman of the parliament asks all chairmen of the parties elected to the parliament, and asks them to point to another chairman who they feel can rightly form a new coalition. The chairman with the most votes is then handed the initiative. After forming the coalition, the lAgmaAur leads the landsstAri. The landsstAri will often consist of around 7 members. The coalition parties divide the various ministries among themselves and after this, the parties elect their representative to these ministries. Any other member of the cabinet is called a landsstArismaAur if the person is a man, or landsstAriskvinna if the person is a woman. The word rAAharri is also used for a member of the cabinet, i.e. mentamAlarAAharri (minister of culture) or heilsumAlarAAharri (minister of health).
Current government [ edit ] 
Kaj Leo Johannesen's second government consists of a coalition between Union Party (Sambandsflokkurin), People's Party (FAlkaflokkurin) and Centre Party (MiAflokkurin). Until 5 September 2013 the coalition also included the Self-Government Party (SjAlvstArisflokkurin), but the party left the coalition after their minister was sacked. KAri P. HAjgaard was minister of internal affairs. The Ministry of Internal Affairs was closed after that. [ 3 ] 
Minister Party From Until Prime Minister, Kaj Leo Johannesen, SB, 14 November 2011, Deputy Prime Minister, Annika Olsen, FF, 14 November 2011, Ministry Minister Party From Until Ministry of Finance, JArgen Niclasen, FF, 14. November 2011, Ministry of Health, Karsten Hansen, MF, 14. November 2011, Ministry of Culture, BjArn KalsA, SB, 14. November 2011, Ministry of Internal Affairs, KAri P. HAjgaard, SF, 14 November 2011, 5 September 2013, Ministry of Fisheries, Jacob Vestergaard, FF, 16 February 2012, JAkup Mikkelsen, FF, 14 November 2011, 15 February 2012, Ministry of Trade and Industry, Johan Dahl, SB, 14 November 2011, Ministry of Social Affairs, Annika Olsen, FF, 14 November 2011, Legislative branch [ edit ] 
The Faroese Parliament ( LAgtingiA in Faroese ) has 33 MPs (members of parliament), elected for a four year term by proportional representation.
Election of 2 seats to the Danish Parliament was last held on September 15, 2011: Social Democrats 1, Union Party 1. [ 4 ] 
Political parties and elections [ edit ] 
For other political parties see List of political parties in the Faroe Islands. An overview on elections and election results is included in Elections in the Faroe Islands. 
The Faroe Islands have a multi-party system (disputing on independence and unionism as well as left and right), with numerous parties in which no one party often has a chance of gaining power alone, and parties must work with each other to form coalition governments. The Faroese Parliament (LAgting) has 33 seats. Members are elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms. For the LAgting elections there were seven electoral districts, each one comprehending a sAslur , while Streymoy is divided in a northern and southern part (TArshavn region), but since 2008, the Faroes constitute a single district. [ 5 ] 
The centre-right parties gained significantly, with both the pro-union Union Party and pro-independence People's Party gaining a seat each, while the new Progress movement (classical liberal) a formed seven months earlier as a breakaway from the People's Party a entered the LAgting with two seats. [ 6 ] The left-wing and centrist parties all lost ground in consequence. [ 7 ] 
ead Summary of the 29 October 2011 LAgting election results Parties Votes +/a th> +/a Seats +/a , Union Party ( Sambandsflokkurin ), 7, 545, +1, 016, 24.7, +3.7, 8, +1, People's Party ( FAlkaflokkurin ), 6, 882, +642, 22.5, +2.4, 8, +1, Republic ( TjAAveldi ), 5, 584, a1, 666, 18.3, a5.0, 6, a2, Social Democratic Party ( JavnaAarflokkurin ), 5, 417, a601, 17.7, a1.6, 6, A0, Progress ( FramsAkn ), 1, 933, New , 6.3, New , 2, New , Centre Party ( MiAflokkurin ), 1, 882, a728, 6.2, a2.2, 2, a1, Self-Government Party ( SjAlvstArisflokkurin ), 1, 289, a995, 4.2, a3.0, 1, a1, Total (turnout 86.6/th> 30, 532 a580 , Source: Kringvarp FAroya (Faroese) , Administrative divisions [ edit ] 
The islands are administratively divided into 30 municipalities [ 8 ] with about 120 cities and villages.
Traditionally, there are also the 6 sAslur (NorAoyar, Eysturoy, Streymoy, VAgar, Sandoy and SuAuroy). SAsla means district and although it is only a police district today, it is still commonly understood as a geographical region. In earlier times, each sAsla had its own ting, the so-called vArting (spring ting).
International affairs [ edit ] 
Along with diplomatic missions to Iceland, the Court of St. James's (United Kingdom) and the European Union, the Faroe Islands participate in the Nordic Council, NIB, International Maritime Organization, International Whaling Commission
Complete list
Further reading [ edit ] 
Debes, Hans Jacob. 1988. "Reflections on the Position, Participation and Co-Operation of Small Nations in International Politics Case The Faroe Islands". Nordic Journal of International Law . a. 573: 365a368., . 
See also [ edit ] 
, Politics portal, Denmark portal, Faroe Islands portal, Cabinet of the Faroe Islands, List of Prime Ministers of the Faroe Islands, Politics of Denmark, List of Danish High Commissioners in the Faroe Islands, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ Mfa.fo, Prime Minister's Office, Government , ^ Stm.dk, the website of the High Commissioner of the Faroe Islands, as part of the Danish Prime Minister's Office , ^ imr.fo , ^ Retsinformation.dk (at the bottom of the page, Section C, VedrArende valget pA FArAerne ) , ^ Logting.elektron.fo, 5 Uppskot til lAgtingslAg um broyting A lAgtingslAg um val til FAroya LAgting ( in Faroese ) , ^ Framsokn.fo (FormansfrAgreiAing Endalig) , ^ Kringvarp.fo, ValArslit (The result of the election of 2011 compared with the results from 2008. On the bottom of the page, where the headline says "MandatbAti" shows the people who were elected for the LAgting, which party they belong to and how many votes they got.) , ^ Sudurras.fo, Allar kommunur A FAroyum savnaAar A eitt kommunufelag , External links [ edit ] 
Prime Ministeras Office, . 
v , t , e , . Politics of Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands , Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_the_Faroe_Islands and oldid=621330823" Categories: Politics of the Faroe Islands, . Hidden categories: Articles with Faroese-language external links, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
FAroyskt, Aslenska, aaaaaaa, Magyar, Norsk bokmAl, Polski, Svenska, . Edit links This page was last modified on 15 August 2014 at 09:54.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
