
Federal Assembly (Russia) - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Federal Assembly (Russia) 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia AA(Redirected from Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation) Jump to: navigation, search 
Federal Assembly 
DDDDNDDNDDD DDDNDDDD 
Federalnoye Sobraniye , Type Type Bicameral , Houses Federation Council
State Duma, Leadership Chairman of the Federation Council Valentina Matviyenko, United Russia
since 21 September 2011 , Chairman of the State Duma Sergey Naryshkin, United Russia
since 20 December 2011 , Structure Seats 616, Federation Council political groups Non-Partisan, State Duma political groups United Russia (238), Communist Party of the Russian Federation (92), A Just Russia (64), Liberal Democratic Party of Russia (56), . , Elections Federation Council voting system Chosen by territorial politicians, State Duma voting system Party-list proportional representation, Federation Council last election 12 December 1993, State Duma last election 4 December 2011, Website http://www.duma.ru, Russia , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Russia , Constitution, Law, . Impeachment, Mental Health Law, Russian Criminal Code, Tax Code, . , Presidency President: Vladimir Putin, . Presidential Administration, Security Council, State Council, . , Executive Prime Minister: Dmitry Medvedev, . Government, Cabinet (14th) , . , Legislature Federal Assembly, Federation Council, State Duma, . , . , Judiciary Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, Prosecutor General, Supreme Court of Arbitration, Legal system, . , Elections Presidential elections, Legislative elections, Central Election Commission, Electoral geography, Political parties, . , Foreign relations United Nations, ArabaIsraeli conflict, . , Related topics Administrative divisions, Federal subjects, Regional parliaments, Armed forces, Martial law, . , Civic Chamber, Accounts Chamber, E-Government, Opposition, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The Federal Assembly (Russian: DDDDNDIDNDDD DDDNDIDDD , tr. Federalnoye Sobraniye ; IPA: [fEEdEEEralEnEjE sE'branEEjEE] ) is the national legislature of the Russian Federation, according to the Constitution of Russian Federation (1993). It was preceded by the Congress of People's Deputies of the Russian Federation and its Supreme Soviet.
It consists of the State Duma, which is the lower house, and the Federation Council, which is the upper house. Both houses are located in Moscow. The Chairman of the Federation Council is the third important position after the President and the Prime Minister. In the case of incapacity of the President and the Prime Minister, the Chairman of the upper house of the Russian parliament becomes Acting President of Russia. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] 
The jurisdiction of the State Duma includes: consent to the appointment of the Chairman of the Government, deciding the issue of confidence in the Government, appointment and dismissal of the Chairman of the Central Bank, appointment and dismissal of the Chairman and half of the auditors of the Accounting Chamber, appointment and dismissal of the Commissioner for human rights, proclamation of amnesty, advancing of charges against the President for his impeachment and others. [ 3 ] 
The jurisdiction of the Council of the Federation includes: approval of changes in borders between subjects of the Russian Federation, approval of the decree of the President on the introduction of a martial law or on the introduction of a state of emergency, deciding on the possibility of using the Armed Forces of Russia outside the territory of the Russia, appointment of elections of the President, impeachment of the President, appointment of judges of higher courts of Russia, appointment and dismissal of the Procurator-General of the Russian Federation, appointment and dismissal of Deputy Chairman and half of the auditors of the all Accounting Chamber and others. [ 4 ] 
Contents
1 Powers , 2 See also , 3 References , 4 External links , . 
Powers [ edit ] 
As the Russian legislature, all laws must be voted in the Federal Assembly before they are signed into law. All bills, even those proposed by the Federation Council, must first be considered by the State Duma. Upon adoption by a majority of the full State Duma membership, a draft law is considered by the Federation Council, which has fourteen days to place the bill on its calendar. The Federation Council cannot make changes in bills passed by the Duma and can either approve or reject them. If the Federation Council rejects a bill passed by the State Duma, the two chambers may form a conciliation commission to work out a compromise version of the legislation. If two chambers cannot reach a compromise, or the Duma insists on passing the bill as is , the veto of the Federation Council can be overridden, if two thirds of the Duma's constitutional composition vote in favor of the bill.
The State Duma and the Federation Council usually meet separately. Joint sessions are organized when the President of Russia delivers his annual address to the Federal Assembly and in some other very rare occasions.
See also [ edit ] 
City Duma, Regional parliaments of Russia, Politics of Russia, List of legislatures by country, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ "DDNN DNDDNDDDNDDN DDDDND DDDDNDNDD DD a NND NNDNDD DDNN D NNNDDD. D NDNNDD DDDDDNDDNDDDDNND DNDDDDDDND D DNDDNDND DDDDDD DNDDNDDDNDDN DDNNDDD DDDDNN DDNDDDDDND DDDDDD DDDDDDDDNN DDNNDDNNNDD." , ^ "DDNDDN N DDN NNDNND DDND D DDNNDDNNNDD DNDDNDDDNDDN DDDDND DDDDNDNDD? DDNDDN NND NND NDDDNDNDN, DD DD NDNDNNDDDNNN, DD DDDNNDNDN DDNNDNDDD." - DDNDDD DDNNDD , ^ The Constitution of the Russian Federation. Article 103 , ^ The Constitution of the Russian Federation. Article 102 , External links [ edit ] 
Russian Federation Today a Official issue of the Federal Assembly (Russian) , . 
v , t , e , . Parliament of Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , v , t , e , . Parliament of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Federal_Assembly_(Russia) and oldid=625148499" Categories: 1993 establishments in Russia, National legislatures, Federal Assembly of Russia, Government of Russia, Bicameral legislatures, . Hidden categories: Articles containing Russian-language text, Articles with Russian-language external links, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, DDDDNNNDDN, DNDDDNNDD, DODDNDD, Deutsch, EspaAol, Esperanto, FranAais, OOOOOOO, Italiano, aaaaaaa, LatvieAu, Magyar, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, SlovenAina, DNDNDD / srpski, Svenska, DDNDNDNNDD, VepsAn kela, Tiang Viat, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 11 September 2014 at 21:31.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
