
Federal subjects of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Federal subjects of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, It has been suggested that List of federal subjects of Russia be merged into this article. (Discuss) Proposed since October 2014. , Russia , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Russia , Constitution, Law, . Impeachment, Mental Health Law, Russian Criminal Code, Tax Code, . , Presidency President: Vladimir Putin, . Presidential Administration, Security Council, State Council, . , Executive Prime Minister: Dmitry Medvedev, . Government, Cabinet (14th) , . , Legislature Federal Assembly, Federation Council, State Duma, . , . , Judiciary Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, Prosecutor General, Supreme Court of Arbitration, Legal system, . , Elections Presidential elections, Legislative elections, Central Election Commission, Electoral geography, Political parties, . , Foreign relations United Nations, ArabaIsraeli conflict, . , Related topics Administrative divisions, Federal subjects , Regional parliaments, Armed forces, Martial law, . , Civic Chamber, Accounts Chamber, E-Government, Opposition, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The federal subjects of Russia , also referred to as the subjects of the Russian Federation (Russian: NNDNDDNN DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD subyekty Rossiskoy Federatsii ) or simply as the subjects of the federation (Russian: NNDNDDNN NDDDNDNDD subyekty federatsii ), are the constituent entities of Russia, its top-level political divisions according to the Constitution of Russia. [ 1 ] Since March 18, 2014, the Russian Federation consists of eighty-five federal subjects, [ 2 ] although the two most recently added subjects are internationally recognized as part of Ukraine. [ 3 ] [ 4 ] 
In 1992, the Russian regions signed the Federation Treaty (Russian: DDDDNDNDDDND DDDDDDN Federativny Dogovor ), [ 5 ] establishing and regulating the current inner composition of Russia, based on division of authorities and powers among Russian government bodies and government bodies of constituent entities. The Federation Treaty was included in the text of the 1978 Constitution of the RSFSR (Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic). In 1993, when the current Constitution of Russia was adopted, there were 89federal subjects listed. By 2008, the number of federal subjects had been decreased to83 because of several mergers. In 2014, Sevastopol and the Republic of Crimea became the 84th and 85th federal subjects of Russia.
According to the Russian Constitution, the Russian Federation consists of republics, krais, oblasts, cities of federal importance, an autonomous oblast, and autonomous okrugs, all of which are equal subjects of the Russian Federation. [ 6 ] Three Russian cities of federal importance have a status of both city and separated federal subject.
Every subject of the Russian Federation has its own president/governor/head (executive branch) , regional parliament (legislative branch) and regional constitutional/charter court (higher judicial branch in a region) . Federal subjects shall have their own constitution/charter and legislation (adopted by regional parliaments). Subjects shall have equal rights as constituent entities of the Russian Federation. All federal subjects of the Russian Federation shall be equal with one another in relations with federal government bodies. [ 7 ] [ 8 ] The federal subjects have equal representationatwo delegates eachain the Federation Council, the upper house of the Federal Assembly. They do, however, differ in the degree of autonomy they enjoy (asymmetric federalism).
Federal subjects should not be confused with the eight Federal districts which are not subdivisions of Russia, are much larger and each encompass many federal subjects. Federal districts were created by Executive Order of the President of Russia specially for presidential envoys.
Contents
1 Terminology , 2 Types , 3 Lists of federal subjects , 4 Mergers 4.1 Further proposals for mergers , . , 5 See also , 6 References , 7 Sources , . 
Terminology [ edit ] 
An official government translation of the Constitution of Russia in Article5 states: [ 9 ] "1. The Russian Federation shall consist of republics, krays, oblasts, cities of federal significance, an autonomous oblast and autonomous okrugs, which shall have equal rights as constituent entities of the Russian Federation."
Another translation of the Constitution of Russia gives for article 65: " The Russian Federation includes the following subjects of the Russian Federation: ". [ 10 ] 
How to translate the Russian term was discussed during the 49th annual American Translators Association conference in Orlando, in which Tom Fennel, a freelance translator, argued that the term "constituent entity of the Russian Federation" should be preferred to "subject". [ 11 ] This recommendation is also shared by Tamara Nekrasova, Head of Translation Department, Goltsblat BLP, who in her "Traps and Mishaps in Legal Translation" presentation in Paris stated that " constituent entity of the Russian Federation is more appropriate than subject of the Russian Federation (subject would be OK for a monarchy)". [ 12 ] 
Rank (as given in constitution and ISO) Russian (Cyrillic) Russian (Latin) English - official translation of the constitution [ 13 ] English - unofficial translation of the constitution [ 10 ] ISO 3166-2:RU (ISO 3166-2 Newsletter II-2 (2010-06-30)) -, NNDNDDN DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD , subyekt Rossiskoy Federatsii, constituent entity of the Russian Federation, subject of the Russian Federation, (not mentioned), 1, NDNDNDDDDD , respublika, republic, republic, republic, 2, DNDD , kraA, kray, territory, administrative territory, 3, DDDDNNN , oblast, oblast, region, administrative region, 4, DDNDD NDDDNDDNDDDD DDDNDDDN , gorod federal'nogo znacheniya, city of federal significance, city of federal importance, autonomous city (the Russian term used in ISO 3166-2 is avtonomnyy gorod ), 5, DDNDDDDDDN DDDDNNN , avtonomnaya oblast, autonomous oblast, autonomous region, autonomous region, 6, DDNDDDDDND DDNND , avtonomnyA okrug, autonomous okrug, autonomous area, autonomous district, Types [ edit ] 
Each federal subject belongs to one of the following types:
Legend Description 46oblasts , most common type of federal subjects with a governor and locally elected legislature. Commonly named after their administrative centers., 22republics , nominally autonomous, each has its own constitution and legislature; is represented by the federal government in international affairs; is meant to be home to a specific ethnic minority., 9krais , essentially the same as oblasts. The title "territory" is historic, originally given because they were once considered frontier regions., 4autonomous okrugs , with substantial or predominant ethnic minority, 3federal cities , major cities that function as separate regions., 1autonomous oblast , the only autonomous oblast is the Jewish Autonomous Oblast, Lists of federal subjects [ edit ] 
List of federal subjects of Russia, List of federal subjects of Russia by GRP, List of federal subjects of Russia by incidence of substance abuse, List of federal subjects of Russia by GDP per capita, List of federal subjects of Russia by murder rate, List of federal subjects of Russia by population, List of federal subjects of Russia by total fertility rate, List of federal subjects of Russia by Human Development Index, List of federal subjects of Russia by unemployment rate, List of current heads of federal subjects of Russia, ISO 3166-2:RU, . 
Mergers [ edit ] 
Federal subjects of Russia 
Starting in 2005, some of the federal subjects were merged into larger territories. The merging process was finished on March 1, 2008. No new mergers have been planned since March 2008.
Date of referendum Date of merger Original entities Original codes New code Original entities New entity 2003-12-07, 2005-12-01, 1, 1a, 59 (1), 81 (1a), 90, Perm Oblast (1) + Komi-Permyak Autonomous Okrug (1a), Perm Krai, 2005-04-17, 2007-01-01, 2, 2a, 2b, 24 (2), 88 (2a), 84 (2b), 24, Krasnoyarsk Krai (2) + Evenk Autonomous Okrug (2a) + Taymyr Autonomous Okrug (2b), Krasnoyarsk Krai, 2005-10-23, 2007-07-01, 3, 3a, 41 (3), 82 (3a), 91, Kamchatka Oblast (3) + Koryak Autonomous Okrug (3a), Kamchatka Krai, 2006-04-16, 2008-01-01, 4, 4a, 38 (4), 85 (4a), 38, Irkutsk Oblast (4) + Ust-Orda Buryat Autonomous Okrug (4a), Irkutsk Oblast, 2007-03-11, 2008-03-01, 5, 5a, 75 (5), 80 (5a), 92, Chita Oblast (5) + Agin-Buryat Autonomous Okrug (5a), Zabaykalsky Krai, Further proposals for mergers [ edit ] 
The following merger proposals have been made in recent years; most have since become inactive. [ citation needed ] 
Proposals Federal subjects Map 6, 6a, Arkhangelsk Oblast + Nenets Autonomous Okrug = Pomorsky Krai, 7, 7a, 7b, Khabarovsk Krai + Jewish Autonomous Oblast + Amur Oblast = Amur Krai, 8, 8a, Magadan Oblast + Chukotka Autonomous Okrug = Magadan Krai, 9, 9a, 9b, Irkutsk Oblast + Buryat Republic + Zabaykalsky Krai = Baykalsky Krai, 10, 10a, 10b, Tyumen Oblast + Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Okrug + KhantyaMansi Autonomous Okrug = Tyumen Krai, 11, 11a, 11b, Novosibirsk Oblast + Omsk Oblast + Tomsk Oblast = Novosibirsk Krai, 12, 12a, 12b, Kemerovo Oblast + Altai Republic + Altai Krai = Altai Krai, 13, St.Petersburg + Leningrad Oblast = St. Petersburg Oblast, 14, Moscow + Moscow Oblast = Moscow Oblast, 15, 15a, Yaroslavl Oblast + Kostroma Oblast = Yaroslavl Krai, 16, 16a, Novgorod Oblast + Pskov Oblast = Novgorod Krai, 17, 17a, Krasnodar Krai + Republic of Adygea = Krasnodar Krai, 18, 18a, Republic of Ingushetia + Chechen Republic = Checheno-Ingushetia, See also [ edit ] 
Subdivisions of Russia, Federal districts of Russia, Economic regions of Russia, History of the administrative division of Russia, Flags of the federal subjects of Russia, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ "The Constitution of the Russian Federation: Chapter 3, The Federal Structure" . Retrieved 2013-04-28 . , ^ "Constitution of the Russian Federation". Russian Presidential Executive Office . Retrieved 2013-04-28 . , ^ Kremlin.ru. DDDDDDN DDDDN DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDDD D DDNDNDDDDDD DNND D DNDDNNDD D DDNNDDNDNN DDDDNDNDN DDNDNDDDDD DNND D DDNDDDDDDDD D NDNNDDD DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD DDDNN NNDNDDNDD ( Treaty Between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Crimea on Ascension to the Russian Federation of the Republic of Crimea and on Establishment of New Subjects Within the Russian Federation ) (Russian) , ^ Putin signs Crimea treaty, will not seize other Ukraine regions , ^ this treaty consisted of three treaties, see also Concluding and Transitional Provisions: [1] [2] , ^ http://www.constitution.ru/en/10003000-02.htm , ^ http://eng.constitution.kremlin.ru/#article-5 , ^ Chapter 1. The Fundamentals of the Constitutional System The Constitution of the Russian Federation. Constitution.ru. Retrieved on 2013-08-20. , ^ http://archive.government.ru/eng/gov/base/54.html (accessed="2014-10-17") , ^ a b http://www.constitution.ru/en/10003000-04.htm , ^ SlavFile Archive Slavic Languages Division. Ata-divisions.org. Retrieved on 2013-08-20. , ^ http://eulita.eu/sites/default/files/Tammy_presentation.pdf , ^ http://archive.government.ru/eng/gov/base/54.html , Sources [ edit ] 
12 DDDDDNN 1993 D. ADDDNNDNNNDN DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDDA, D NDD. DDDDNDDNDDDD DDDNNDNNNDDDDDDD DDDDDD a7-DDD DN30 DDDDDNN 2008 D. DNNNDDD D NDDNND DDN DNDNDDDNDDDD DDNDDDDDDDDDN. DDNDDDDDDDD: "DDNNDDNDDN DDDDND", a237, 25 DDDDDNN 1993 D. (December 12, 1993 Constitution of the Russian Federation , as amended by the Federal Constitutional Law#7-FKZ ofDecember 30, 2008. Effective as ofthe official publication date.)., . 
v , t , e , . Subdivisions of Russia , Federal subjects , Republics Adygea, Altai, Bashkortostan, Buryatia, Chechnya, Chuvashia, Crimea 1 , Dagestan, Ingushetia, Kabardino-Balkaria, Kalmykia, Karachay-Cherkessia, Karelia, Khakassia, Komi, Mari El, Mordovia, North OssetiaaAlania, Sakha, Tatarstan, Tuva, Udmurtia, . , Krais Altai, Kamchatka, Khabarovsk, Krasnodar, Krasnoyarsk, Perm, Primorsky, Stavropol, Zabaykalsky, . , Oblasts Amur, Arkhangelsk, Astrakhan, Belgorod, Bryansk, Chelyabinsk, Irkutsk, Ivanovo, Kaliningrad, Kaluga, Kemerovo, Kirov, Kostroma, Kurgan, Kursk, Leningrad, Lipetsk, Magadan, Moscow, Murmansk, Nizhny Novgorod, Novgorod, Novosibirsk, Omsk, Orenburg, Oryol, Penza, Pskov, Rostov, Ryazan, Sakhalin, Samara, Saratov, Smolensk, Sverdlovsk, Tambov, Tomsk, Tula, Tver, Tyumen, Ulyanovsk, Vladimir, Volgograd, Vologda, Voronezh, Yaroslavl, . , Federal cities Moscow, St.Petersburg, Sevastopol 1 , . , Autonomous oblast Jewish, . , Autonomous okrugs Chukotka AO, Khanty-Mansi AO 2 , Nenets AO 3 , Yamalo-Nenets AO 2 , . , 1 Claimed by Ukraine and considered by most of the international community to be part of Ukraine, 2 Administratively subordinated to Tyumen Oblast, 3 Administratively subordinated to Arkhangelsk Oblast, . , Internal additional non-constitutional divisions by different institutions , Economic regions (by Ministry of Economic Development), Military districts (by Ministry of Defence), Federal districts (by President), Judicial districts (by law "On arbitration courts"), . , v , t , e , . Lists of federal subjects of Russia , By Population (density), Gross Regional Product, GDP per capita, Literacy rate, Total fertility rate, Substance abuse, HDI, Life expectancy, Highest point, Murder rate, Unemployment, Name etymology, . , Other Flags, Coats of arms, Governors, . , v , t , e , . First-level administrative divisions in Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia 2 , Austria, Azerbaijan 1 , Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus 2 , Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia 1 , Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan 1 , Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia 1 , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey 1 , Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia 2 , Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh 2 , Northern Cyprus 2 , South Ossetia 2 , Transnistria, . , 1 Has part of its territory outside Europe. 2 Considered European for cultural, political and historical reasons but is geographically in Western Asia. , Table of administrative divisions by country , v , t , e , . Articles on first-level administrative divisions of Asian countries , Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan 1 , Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma, Cambodia, China, Cyprus, Egypt 1 , Gaza Strip, Georgia 1 , Hong Kong, India, Indonesia 1 , Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan 1 , North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Macau, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Northern Cyprus, Oman, Pakistan, Palestinian Authority, Philippines, Qatar, Russia 1 , Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Taiwan, Tajikistan, Thailand, Timor-Leste (East Timor) 1 , Turkey 1 , Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen 1 , . , 1 Country spanning more than one continent (transcontinental country). , Table of administrative divisions by country , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Federal_subjects_of_Russia and oldid=630379342" Categories: Federal subjects of Russia, Lists of subdivisions of Russia, Country subdivisions of Europe, First-level administrative country subdivisions, Federal subjects of Russia-related lists, Russian-speaking countries and territories, History of Russia (1992apresent), . Hidden categories: Articles with Russian-language external links, Articles to be merged from October 2014, All articles to be merged, Articles containing Russian-language text, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from August 2013, Use mdy dates from March 2014, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
AcAh, DDNDNDDN, Afrikaans, OUOOOUO, DDNODNNND, DNNNDD, CatalA, AeAtina, Dansk, Deutsch, Eesti, IIIIIIII, DNDNDN, EspaAol, Esperanto, UOOOU, FranAais, Gaeilge, Galego, iei, OOOOOOO, aaaaaa, Hrvatski, Bahasa Indonesia, DNDD, Italiano, Kapampangan, aaaaaaa, ODDDOND, LatvieAu, LAtzebuergesch, LietuviA, Magyar, DDDDDDDNDD, aaaaa, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, UUOOOU, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, Scots, aaaaa, SlovenAina, DDDDNDNNDN / aaaaaaaaaa, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Suomi, Svenska, Tagalog, aaaaa, DDNDNND/tatarAa, aaa, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, OOOU, VepsAn kela, Tiang Viat, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 20 October 2014 at 14:37.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
