
Fishing industry in Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Fishing industry in Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Fishing industry in Russia Russia has a coastline of 37, 653 km. [ 1 ] , General characteristics (2005 unless otherwise stated) EEZ area 7, 566, 673 kmA [ 2 ] , Shelf area 5 million kmA [ 3 ] , Lake area 79, 400 sq km [ 1 ] , Land area 16, 995, 800 sq km [ 1 ] , Employment Primary: 100, 000+ persons [ 3 ] 
Secondary: 700, 000+ persons [ 3 ] , Landing sites Most volume:
Most value:, Consumption 17.3 kg fish per capita (2003) [ 2 ] , Fisheries GDP US$ 3.02 billion (2006) [ 3 ] , Export value US$ 2.12 billion (2006) [ 3 ] , Import value US$ 1.44 billion (2006) [ 3 ] , Harvest (2005 unless otherwise stated) Wild inland 72, 000 tonnes, Wild total 3, 190, 946 tonnes [ 4 ] , Aquaculture inland ca 110, 000 tonnes [ 5 ] , Aquaculture marine ca 5, 000 tonnes, Aquaculture total 114, 752 tonnes [ 4 ] , Fish total 3, 305, 698 tonnes [ 4 ] , The coastline of the Russian Federation is the fourth longest in the world after the coastlines of Canada, Greenland, and Indonesia. The Russian fishing industry has an exclusive economic zone (EEZ) of 7.6 million kmA including access to twelve seas in three oceans, together with the landlocked Caspian Sea and more than two million rivers. [ 3 ] 
According to the FAO, in 2005 the Russian fishing industry harvested 3, 190, 946 tonnes of fish from wild fisheries and another 114, 752 tonnes from aquaculture. This made Russia the ninth leading producer of fish, with 2.3 percent of the world total. [ 4 ] 
Contents
1 Management 1.1 Artisanal , 1.2 Recreational , 1.3 Industrial , . , 2 Wild fisheries 2.1 EEZ , 2.2 Catch profile , 2.3 Coastal fisheries , 2.4 High seas fisheries , 2.5 Inland fisheries , 2.6 Fishing fleet , 2.7 Decline of stocks , . , 3 Aquaculture , 4 Research , 5 Education , 6 Maps , 7 See also , 8 Notes , 9 References , 10 External links , . 
Management [ edit ] 
Fisheries management is regulated by Russian federal laws. The federal law "On Fisheries and Protection of Aquatic Biological Resources" of December 2004 (referred to below as the Law on Fisheries ) divides fisheries into three main categories" industrial, recreational, and subsistence fisheries of indigenous groups. Industrial fisheries includes coastal fisheries. This definition has been challenged and is under review. [ 3 ] 
The Law on Fisheries requires that total allowable catch (TAC) levels are set for fishery stocks. It defines these levels as the ascientifically justified annual catch of aquatic biological resources of particular species in a fishing areaa. However, the Law on Fisheries then goes on to state that industrial fisheries are not necessarily required to base their catch on TAC. The Law does not explain this further, but calls for the federal government to issue a special TAC setting statute. Pacific salmon is the main stock that will probably not have TAC, but will have regulated fishing effort instead.
The Law on Fisheries also gives a definition of a fishing unit area and sets general principles for their use. The compiling of lists of fishing unit areas is delegated to the regional authorities. The Law on Fisheries has gaps and its application is criticized by parliamentarians and stakeholders. It may be expected that in the coming years at least two new federal laws, "On Coastal Fisheries" and "On Aquaculture", will be considered by Russian legislators. [ 3 ] 
Apart from TAC settings, fisheries are also regulated by the so-called Fishing Rules (Pravila rybolovstva). These rules are set separately for different geographical regions. [ 3 ] 
The Fishing Rules specify seasonal closures, closed areas, restrictions on specific gears such as retricting mesh sizes, minimum catch sizes, and restricted levels of allowable bycatch. Fisheries management has been changing since Soviet times, and further changes are likely. [ 3 ] 
The government has mismanaged the fisheries, with frequent restructuring of the institutions responsible for fishery management and control. Starting in 1992, the fishery authority has been reorganized at least five times. The head of the fishery authority was replaced seven times, and not one of these heads was a fishery professional. The issues involved in regulating fishing capacity were never really recognized. However, consistent fishery policies are starting to be developed now. [ 3 ] [ 6 ] [ 7 ] 
The extreme bureaucracy involved for a fishing vessel to make a port call and land fish results in coastal processing being bypassed. Instead, the seafood is just directly exported, unprocessed. Similarly, there are many bureaucratic difficulties in developing aquaculture. Getting a licence to use water and the necessary sanitary certificates is very time consuming, although it does guarantee environmental and health safety. [ 3 ] 
Artisanal [ edit ] 
Fishing vessels off a jetty, believed to be Kostroma (Russia) Oil on canvas, 1839, by Anton Ivanov 
There is no legally adopted term in Russia for artisanal fisheries. Artisanal or subsistence fishing usually refers to fishing mainly with traditional gear, with production delivered to the market but also used for subsistence. In Russia, the term covers also several kinds of fisheries classified as industrial, such as salmon, chars, whitefish, navaga, flounders and greenling fisheries in the Baltic, the Arctic and the Far Eastern Seas. Subsistence fishing by indigenous groups is also an issue. Indigenous fishers mainly work estuaries, lagoons and rivers (for anadromous fish). Legally, they are bound to use their catch for local consumption only. They are not allowed to sell their catch, but in reality, this is not always the case. [ 3 ] 
In Russia, poverty contributes to poaching and other threats to fishery resources. Poverty can leave people depending on natural resources to feed themselves. There may be little perceived incentive to protect fish and other aquatic life and to use them in a sustainable way. Lack of awareness and lack of public involvement in managing local resources can result in poaching, overfishing, and other kinds of illegal activities. Poaching by private individuals feeds the industrial IUU catch, and forms a vicious cycle. [ 3 ] 
The social impacts of traditional fisheries has rarely been analysed. The yearly fishing cycle still dominates life in the traditional fishing villages of the Pomor, dotted around the coast of the White Sea. [ 8 ] Fishing has similarly influenced the life style of many indigenous groups, such as among settlers around the Pacific Coast, north of Siberia, and around the big lakes. In the late 1960s, administrative decisions were made to abandon many coastal villages and resettle people in larger settlements. This has disrupted the traditional ways and is associated with alcohol abuse and increased poverty. There is now a slow movement towards reviving cultural traditions. To succeed, there must also be a re-establishment of the sustainable fisheries that allowed such fishing communities to flourish. [ 3 ] 
Recreational [ edit ] 
Recreational fishing occurs everywhere in Russia. The Fishing Rules do not distinguish recreational fishing from artisan fishing, so both are regulated under the same rules. In some areas, tourist fishing is growing. [ 3 ] 
In 1999, recreational and subsistence fishers took 4, 300 tonnes, mostly perches and cyprinids. [ 9 ] Later estimates are not available. The most significant recreational fishery by value is the Kola Peninsula Atlantic salmon fishery. [ 3 ] 
Industrial [ edit ] 
Russia has three main industrial fisheries: [ 3 ] 
marine fisheries a including brackish water and anadromous species, and estuarine fisheries, inland fisheries, aquaculture, . 
Catch by fishery category, 2005 [ 3 ] Category Fishery zone Catch
tonne Percent Comment Marine, Coastal EEZ, 69, Marine, Foreign EEZ, 14.5, The reported catch in EEZs of foreign states is stable., Marine, High seas, 10, Catch on the high seas increased in the 2000s., Inland, 72, 000, 2.7, Inland fisheries are found everywhere in river basins and freshwater bodies, but the catch has constituted only a very small fraction of the total catch., Aquaculture, 3.6, Aquaculture (mainly freshwater) production is relatively small compared to capture fisheries, but is growing., Wild fisheries [ edit ] 
EEZ [ edit ] 
Relief map of Russia 
Russia's marine fisheries are based on twelve seas from three oceans which surround Russia, the landlocked Caspian Sea, and the high seas beyond Russiaas exclusive economic zone (EEZ).
The three oceans are: [ 3 ] 
the Atlantic: with the Sea of Azov, Black Sea, Baltic, Barents Sea and White Sea, the Arctic Ocean: with the Kara Sea, Laptev Sea, East Siberian Sea and Chuckchi Sea, the Pacific: with the Bering Sea, Sea of Okhotsk and Sea of Japan., . 
Marine capture fisheries in Russiaas territorial seas, internal marine waters and the EEZ provided up to 75 percent of the total reported catch for 1996a2005.
External images Russian exclusive economic zone, Russian fishery production timeseries, Russia's EEZ [ 2 ] , Area kmA Asia, 6, 382, 530kmA, Baltic, 24, 549, Barents Sea, 1, 159, 594, Total EEZ, 7, 566, 673, Catch profile [ edit ] 
The officially recorded annual value of fisheries is about US$5 billion, equivalent to 0.3 percent of GDP. The fishery sector has been stable in absolute terms in recent years, so its share of GDP has reduced as the general economy has expanded. [ 3 ] 
Fisheries data in tonnes [ 3 ] , 2003 Production Imports Exports Food supply Per capita Fish for direct human consumption, 3, 389, 932, 815, 155, 1, 374, 894, 2, 481, 542, 17.3kg, Fish for animal feed and other purposes, 348, 652, -, -, -, Due to the decreasing catch and a growing export to East Asian markets, Russian fisheries cannot meet current domestic demand for seafood. East Asian markets are more attractive to fishing enterprises than the domestic market. As a consequence, there are increasing imports for the affluent in big cities, with increasing subsistence and recreational fishing with its associated IUU catch. [ 3 ] 
Coastal fisheries [ edit ] 
, This section is empty. You can help by adding to it. (January 2011) , High seas fisheries [ edit ] 
, This section is empty. You can help by adding to it. (January 2011) , Inland fisheries [ edit ] 
Omul fish, endemic to Lake Baikal. Smoked and on sale at Listyanka market. 
The biggest inland water is the landlocked Caspian Sea. The biggest lakes are Baikal (23, 000kmA), Ladoga (19, 100kmA) and Onega (9, 700kmA). Russia has more than 2 million rivers, the largest of which are, in order, Severnaya Dvina, Pechora, Dnieper, Volga, Oba, Don, Yenisei, Lena, Kolyma, Indigirka and Amur. [ 3 ] The most important inland fishing area is the ObaaIrtysh River Basin (about 27 percent). Sixty species are caught in the inland fisheries of Russia. [ 10 ] In volume terms, whitefish (Coregonidae), cyprinids, zanders and perch are most important. Set nets are the most common gear used in inland water commercial fisheries. Seines are also used on big rivers and lakes, and small trawls on the big lakes. In 2005, the official catch in the inland waters was 72, 000 tonnes. [ 11 ] 
Inland fish catch in tonnes [ 11 ] , Water bodies or drainage areas 2005 Percent Main species Ob-Irtysh catchment (West Siberia), 19, 200, 26.7, Enisei catchment, 1, 150, 1.6, Lakes, Ladoga, 2, 900, 4.0, cyprinids, perch and whitefish, Onega, 2, 100, 2.9, cyprinids, perch and whitefish, Chudsko-Pskovskoye (Peipsi)
(shared with Estonia), 4, 000, 5.6, cyprinids, smelt and coregonids, Ilmen, 1, 380, 1.9, Baikal, 2, 500, 3.5, whitefish, Water reservoirs, Rybinsk, 1, 040, 1.4, Kuibyshevskoye [ disambiguation needed ] , 2, 110, 2.9, Saratovskoye, 600, 0.8, Volgograd (on the Volga), 1, 720, 2.4, Tsimlyansk (on the Don), 6, 900, 9.6, cyprinids, perch and sander, Other areas, 26, 400, 36.7, Total, 72, 000, 100, In the past, sturgeon has been an important catch in the basin of the Sea of Azov and the Caspian Sea, and in Siberian Rivers and the Amur River. Currently, sturgeon stocks are heavily depleted and under constant pressure from poaching. Inland fisheries are regulated by the Law on Fisheries discussed above. However, few provisions refer specifically to inland fisheries, although there are specific regulations for same catchments and river systems. These regulations specify closed areas, seasonal closures, gear restrictions, minimum mesh sizes and minimum catch size. [ 11 ] 
Fishing fleet [ edit ] 
The Russian fishing trawler Sergey Makarevich in the North Atlantic. 
According to the Russian State Marine Register, in 2002, the offshore fishing fleet contained about 2, 500 fishing vessels, 366 transport vessels and 46 factory ships. Of the fishing vessels, 17 percent were longer than 64 metres (o/a), half were between 34 and 64 metres, and one-third were between 24 and 34 metres. Smaller boats are registered with the State Inspection of Small Size Fleet. In 2005, the marine small size fleet contained 2, 491 boats, and the inland fleet contained 5, 500 motor boats. [ 3 ] 
Fishing gears used are: [ 3 ] 
Midwater trawls a used by processing trawlers and freezing for redfish and Alaska pollock., . Bottom trawls a restricted use by medium and large sized trawlers, for demersal fishes such as halibut, cod, redfish, flounder., . Shrimp trawls a used by specialised shrimp trawlers, . Bottom nets a used by small and mid size vessels for flounder, cod and halibut, . Bottom seines a deployed by small vessels for flounder, cod, halibut and other demersal fishes., . Drift nets a used by mid size vessels, mainly for salmon., . Bottom longlines a used for halibut, cod and redfish., . Traps and pots a used by small and mid size vessels for shrimp, crabs and whelks, . Seines and pound nets a for herring and whitefish, . Dredges a operated from small vessels for clams., . Small boats a used with salmon kiddles (basketwork traps), and for skindivers harvesting scallops, sea urchins, kelp and sea cucumbers., . 
An important issue is the age of the Russian fishing fleet. About two-thirds of the fishing vessels do not conform to safety norms. Compared to 1990, by 2000 capital investment in the industry had decreased thirty percent and the number of specialists qualified in fishing, navigation and processing technologies had decreased 30 to 40 percent. [ 12 ] [ 13 ] The Barents Sea cod fishery is an example of the dominance of elderly and ineffective vessels. [ 14 ] Between 2002 and 2005, forty percent of effort in the demersal fishery was by elderly freezing trawlers, which produced only twenty-five percent of the official catch. That is, they were 1.5 times less effective than the other vessels in the fleet. Equivalent modern trawlers are three to four times as effective. The low efficiencies of these elderly vessels also implicates them in involvements with IUU catch. [ 3 ] 
Decline of stocks [ edit ] 
According to the FAO, important stocks have declined as the result of: [ 3 ] 
natural fluctuations: Pacific pilchard, a combination of natural fluctuations and overfishing: Atlantic and Pacific herring, Alaska pollock, capelin in the Barents Sea, overfishing and continuing IUU: sturgeons, Atlantic salmon, red king crab, sea cucumber, a combination of marine pollution and overfishing: whitefish and Atlantic salmon in the Pechora drainage basin, whitefish and sturgeon in the Ob drainage basin, most of the stocks in the Amur Basin, ecosystem transformation due to the introduction of invasive species: sprat in the Black and the Caspian Seas., . 
Aggravating factors surround the demand for seafood from East Asian markets, which encourage commercial fishermen to exhaust stocks in Russiaas EEZ. Russian illegal exporters have well oiled links to importers in Japan, China and South Korea. Criminal groups and corruption magnifies the effect, as the short distances needed to transport seafood from south Kurils and south Sakhalin to Japan. Huge fish processing developments in China built on cheap labour encourage the export of further unprocessed fish. [ 3 ] 
Aquaculture [ edit ] 
Over sixty species of fish, invertebrates and seaweed are commercially cultivated by aquaculture or fish farming in Russia. [ 5 ] Aquaculture is based mainly on buffalo, grass and silver carp, rainbow trout, scallops, mussels and laminaria. In 2007 there were 300 aquaculture enterprises. [ 15 ] 
Aquaculture can be freshwater or marine (mariculture):
Freshwater aquaculture a occurs northwest of European Russia where a lot of trout are farmed, in the Far East, and south of Siberia. Production 2003 to 2006 was about 100, 000 tonnes. [ 5 ] , . Mariculture a occurs mainly in Primorye Province on the coast of the Sea of Japan. In 2006, marine farms in Primorye covered 10, 000 hectares, which produces 1, 340 tonnes, mainly of Laminaria, blue mussel and the scallop Mizuhopecten yessoensis . [ 16 ] , . 
Potential development areas for freshwater aquaculture include 960, 000 hectares of agricultural water bodies, 143, 000 hectares of ponds, plus other areas in big lakes and water reservoirs suitable for cage farming. The National Project on Agricultural Sector development (Federal Agency of Fishery, 2006) has set a target for 2020 of 1.4 million tonnes from freshwater aquaculture and 400 thousand tonnes from mariculture. The federal government is considering a subsidy of two-thirds of the credit needed to construct and modernise aquaculture facilities. [ 3 ] 
Research [ edit ] 
In Soviet times, the Ministry for Fishery Industry operated many institutes which undertook comprehensive research in oceanography, marine biology, the assessment of fishery resources, fishery management regimes, and the technology of fishing gear and fish processing. The Ministry also operated research ship on the high seas to meet the needs of Russian distant water fisheries.
After the breakup of the Soviet Union, these institutes, basically responsible for research in fisheries science, were coordinated by VNIRO, the central fishery institute in Moscow.
In 2007, the regional institutes became formally subordinate branches of VNIRO. Notably, the GIPRORYBFLOT in St. Petersburg researches the technology of fishing vessels and fish processing, while the VIERH in Moscow does economic research. [ 3 ] 
Education [ edit ] 
Five technical universities are geared to train specialists in fisheries. There are programmes for fisheries biology, navigation and marine engineering, fish processing, processing machinery, the economics of fisheries and aquaculture. Four professional schools graduate middle level professionals.
Nine universities graduate about 120 aquaculture specialists each year. The biological departments of several universities also graduate pecialists in fish biology and fishery oceanography. [ 3 ] 
The institutes that are traditionally of most importance are the St. Petersburg Hydrometeorological Institute, the geographical departments of St. Petersburg and Moscow universities, the biological department of Moscow State University, the Far Eastern National University, Kazan State University and Perm State University. [ 3 ] 
Maps [ edit ] 
Map of Russia
, Location of the Barents Sea
, Map of the Barents Sea
, Location of the Laptev Sea
, Map of the Laptev Sea
, . 
See also [ edit ] 
, Agriculture and Agronomy portal, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Fishing in Russia ., Agriculture in Russia, Agriculture in the Russian Empire, Agriculture in the Soviet Union, Continental shelf of Russia, . 
Notes [ edit ] 
^ a b c CIA: Factbook: Russia , ^ a b c Sea Around Us Project , ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z aa ab ac ad ae af ag ah FAO: Profile for Russia , ^ a b c d FAO: Fisheries and Aquaculture 2005 statistics. , ^ a b c State Committee of Fishery of the Russian Federation a Federal Agency of Fishery, 2006. , ^ Zilanov VK (2007) Fishery problems in the professionalas eye. , ^ Titova GD (2007) Bioeconomic problems of fisheries in national jurisdiction zones. St. Petersburg, VVM Ltd. Publishing, 367 p. (in Russian). , ^ Tzetlin, A (2000) Traditional nature use on the White Sea. Ohrana dikoi prirody, 2: 13a16 (in Russian). , ^ Yatskevich, B.A., Pak, V.A., Rybalsky, N.G. (eds) (2000) Natural resources and environment of Russia. Moscow, Nia Priroda, Refia (in Russian). , ^ Reshetnikov, 2002 , ^ a b c Ministry of Natural Resources, 2006 , ^ Zilanov, V (2001) Fish under law? Russia Today, 22: 54a55 (in Russian). , ^ State Committee for Fisheries, 2003. , ^ Kalentchenko MM, Kozlovsky AN and Shevchenko VV (2007) Economic effectiveness of using the Russian fishery fleet in the Barents Sea. Series of technical reports aTowards sustainable fisherya published by WWF Russia. Barents Ecoregion Office of WWF Russia, Murmansk, 53 p. (in Russian). , ^ Mitupov, T (2007) Aquaculture in Russia. Answers of the head of the Investment a Analytical Group aNorge-Fisha Timur Mitupov to the questionnaire of the NorwegianaRussian Trade Chamber. , ^ Markovtsev, V (2007) Fishery and aquaculture of the world. Rybak Primorya (in Russian). , References [ edit ] 
Fish Industry of Russiaa Production, Trade, Markets and Investment . Eurofish, Copenhagen, Denmark. 2006 . Retrieved 2007-12-26 . , . 
External links [ edit ] 
Pacific Rim Fisheries: Russian Federation, the Far East, Fishnet Russia - Business directory and trade leads portal, Russian Fish Industry, . 
v , t , e , . Economy of Russia , History Soviet Union, Privatization, 1998 financial crisis, Monetary reforms in Russia (1991, 1993, 1998), National Priority Projects, National champions, Stabilization Fund, Great Recession in Russia, Medvedev modernisation programme, Timeline of largest projects, . , Natural resources Timber, Mining, Aluminium, Oil reserves, Energy, Nuclear power, Geothermal power, Renewable energy, . , Agriculture Fishery , Hunting, Forestry, . , Industry Engineering, (Aircraft, Automotive, Tractor, timber and agricultural machinery, Defence, Shipbuilding, Space industry, Rolling stock manufacturers), Metallurgy, (Pipe Industry), Petroleum industry, Chemical industry, Science and technology, Food industry, . , Infrastructure Telecommunications, Transport Rail, Vehicle registration plates, . , . , Services Grocery retailing, Tourism, Gambling, Real estate, . , Finance Russian ruble, Account Chamber, Banking (Banks , Central Bank of Russia) , Federal budget, Moscow Exchange, National Pension Fund, Social Insurance Fund, Tax Code, Billionaires, . , Regional economies Natural resources of Primorsky Krai, Federal subjects by GRP, Federal subjects by GDP per capita, Federal subjects by HDI, Federal subjects by unemployment rate, . , Economic regions Central, Ural, North Caucasus, Volga, West Siberian, East Siberian, Volga-Vyatka, Northwestern, Central Black Earth, Far Eastern, Northern, . , Other Companies, Trade unions, . , Category, Commons, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry , Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Fishing industry by region , By country Angola, Bangladesh, Brunei, Benin, Canada, Chad, Chile, China, Denmark, England, Ethiopia, Ghana, Greenland, Guernsey, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Japan, South Korea, Laos, Maldives, Morocco, New Zealand, Pakistan, Palau, Portugal, Russia , Scotland, Senegal, Turkmenistan, Uganda, United States, Vanuatu, . , Fishing banks Agulhas Bank, Dogger Bank, Flemish Cap, Georges Bank, Grand Banks, Hawkins Bank, Macclesfield Bank, Nazareth Bank, Princess Alice, Saya de Malha, Soudan Banks, . , By species Alaskan king crabs, Alaskan salmon, Peruvian anchoveta, . , Other areas Alaska, Chatham Rise, North Sea, . , v , t , e , . Fisheries and fishing topic areas , Fisheries Aquaculture, Diversity of fish, Fish diseases and parasites, Fish farming, Fisheries management, Fisheries science, Individual fishing quota, Sustainable fishery, Wild fisheries, . , Fishing Artisan fishing, Fisherman, Fishing vessel, History of fishing, . , Industry By country, Commercial fishing, Marketing, Markets, Processing, Products, Seafood, . , Recreation Angling, Big-game fishing, Catch and release, Fishing tournaments, Fly fishing, . , Techniques Fish trap, Fishfinder, Fishing net, Gathering seafood by hand, Handline fishing, Spearfishing, Trawling, . , Tackle Artificial flies, Bait, Bite indicators, Hook, Line, Lures, Rod, Sinker, . , Locations Fish ponds, Fishing banks, Fishing villages, Marine habitats, . , Glossary, Index, Outline, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fishing_industry_in_Russia and oldid=616457884" Categories: Fishing in Russia, . Hidden categories: Pages using duplicate arguments in template calls, Articles to be expanded from January 2011, All articles to be expanded, Articles with empty sections from January 2011, All articles with empty sections, Articles with links needing disambiguation from September 2011, Commons category without a link on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
iei, DNNNDDD, Svenska, . Edit links This page was last modified on 11 July 2014 at 00:00.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
