
Belavezha Accords - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Belavezha Accords 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2008) , Agreement establishing the Commonwealth of Independent States Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk (second from left seated), Chairman of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Belarus Stanislav Shushkevich (third from left seated) and Russian President Boris Yeltsin (second from right seated) during the signing ceremony at Viskuly Government House in the Belarusian National Park "BiaAowieAa Forest", 8 December 1991 , Type Treaty establishing a loose regional organisation, Signed 8 December 1991, Location BiaAowieAa Forest (de facto)
Minsk, Belarus (de jure), Effective 12 December 1991, Signatories Russia
Ukraine
Belarus, Depositary Minsk, Belarus, The Belavezha Accords (Russian: DDDDDDDNDDD NDDDDNDDDN , Belarusian: DDDDDDDNDNN DDDDDDDDDN , Ukrainian: DNDDDDDNDN NDDDD ) is the agreement that declared the Soviet Union effectively dissolved and established the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) in its place. It was signed at the state dacha near Viskuli in Belovezhskaya Pushcha on December 8, 1991, by the leaders of three of the four republics-signatories of the Treaty on the Creation of the USSR -- Russian President Boris Yeltsin, Ukrainian president Leonid Kravchuk and Belarusian parliament chairman Stanislau Shushkevich.
Contents
1 Transliteration , 2 Legal basis and ratification , 3 Current location , 4 Signators , 5 See also , 6 References , 7 External links , . 
Transliteration [ edit ] 
The name is variously transliterated as Belavezh Accords , Belovezh Accords , Belovezha Accords , Belavezha Agreement , Belovezhskaya Accord , Belaya Vezha Accord , etc.
Legal basis and ratification [ edit ] 
While doubts remained over the authority of the leaders of three of the 12 remaining republics (the three Baltic republics had seceded in August) to dissolve the Union, according to Article 72 of the 1977 Soviet Constitution, Soviet republics had the right to secede freely from the Union. On December 12, 1991 the Supreme Soviet of the Russian SFSR ratified the accords on behalf of Russia and at the same time denounced the 1922 Treaty on the Creation of the Soviet Union, effectively seceding from the USSR.
However, in the aftermath of the failed coup in August 1991, the Communist Party of the Soviet Union had been effectively dissolved and the republics were scrambling to pull free of Moscow. By the end of the summer of 1991, Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev could no longer influence events outside of the Kremlin. He was being challenged even there by Yeltsin, who by the end of the fall had taken over most of the Soviet government.
The preamble of the document stated that "the USSR, as a subject of international law and a geopolitical reality, is ceasing its existence." It also invited other republics to join the three founding members.
These attempts to dissolve the Soviet Union were seen as illegal by what remained of the Soviet federal government. Gorbachev himself described the moves thus:
...The fate of the multinational state cannot be determined by the will of the leaders of three republics. The question should be decided only by constitutional means with the participation of all sovereign states and taking into account the will of all their citizens. The statement that Unionwide legal norms would cease to be in effect is also illegal and dangerous; it can only worsen the chaos and anarchy in society. The hastiness with which the document appeared is also of serious concern. It was not discussed by the populations nor by the Supreme Soviets of the republics in whose name it was signed. Even worse, it appeared at the moment when the draft treaty for a Union of Sovereign States, drafted by the USSR State Council, was being discussed by the parliaments of the republics. [ 1 ] 
All doubts about whether the Soviet Union still existed were removed on December 21, 1991, when the representatives of 11 of the 12 remaining Soviet republics--all except Georgia--signed the Alma-Ata Protocol, which confirmed the extinction of the Soviet Union and restated the establishment of the CIS. Given that 11 of the republics now agreed that the Soviet Union no longer existed, the plurality of member-republics required for its continuance as a federal State was no longer in place. The summit of Alma-Ata also provisionally accepted Gorbachev's resignation as president of the Soviet Union and agreed on several other practical measures consequential to the extinction of the Union. Gorbachev stated that he would resign as soon as he knew the CIS was a reality. Three days later, in a secret meeting with Yeltsin, he accepted the fait accompli of the Soviet Union's dissolution.
However, for four more days a rump Soviet federal government continued to exist, and Gorbachev continued to hold control over the Kremlin. This ended in the early hours of December 25, 1991, when Gorbachev resigned and turned control of the Kremlin and the remaining powers of his office over to the office of the president of Russia, Yeltsin.
Gorbachev's televised resignation speech and the subsequent lowering of the flag of the Soviet Union and hoisting of the flag of Russia on the flagpole in front of the Kremlin was broadcast around the world. On this day, President of the United States George H.W. Bush, a former head of the CIA, gave a short speech on national TV in the United States to commemorate the ending of the Cold War and to recognize the independence of the former states of the Soviet Union. [ 2 ] 
Also on December 25, 1991, the Russian SFSR, now no longer a sub-national entity of the Soviet Union but a sovereign nation in its own right, adopted a law renaming itself the "Russian Federation" or "Russia" (both being equally official).
Gorbachev's speech and the lowering of the Soviet flag marked the end of the Soviet Union in the eyes of the world. However, the final legal step in the dissolution came a day later, when the Soviet of the Republics, the upper house of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR, recognized the collapse of the Union and voted both itself and the Union out of existence. The lower house, the Soviet of the Union, had not met since 12 December when Russia recalled its deputies from both chambers, leaving it without a quorum.
The Summit of Alma-Ata also issued a statement on December 21, 1991 supporting Russia's claim to be recognized as the successor state of the Soviet Union for the purposes of membership of the United Nations. On December 25, 1991, Russian President Yeltsin informed UN Secretary-General Javier PArez de CuAllar that the Soviet Union had been dissolved and that Russia would, as its successor state, continue the Soviet Union's membership in the United Nations. The document confirmed the credentials of the representatives of the Soviet Union as representatives of Russia, and requested that the name "Soviet Union" be changed to "Russian Federation" in all records and entries. This was a move designed to allow Russia to retain the Soviet Union's permanent Security Council seat, which wouldn't have been possible if the former republics were all reckoned as equal successors of the Soviet Union, or if the Soviet Union was regarded as having no successor state for the purpose of continuing the same UN membership. (see Russia and the United Nations). The Secretary General circulated the request, and there being no objection from any Member State, the Russian Federation took the Soviet Union's UN seat. On January 31, 1992, Russian Federation President Yeltsin personally took part in a Security Council meeting as representative of Russia, the first Security Council meeting in which Russia occupied the permanent Security Council seat originally granted to the Soviet Union by the UN Charter.
Current location [ edit ] 
Stanislau Shushkevich, the former leader of Belarus was told by the country's foreign ministry that the original accords have gone missing as of February 7, 2013. He tried to obtain the original copy to assist in writing his memoirs. [ 3 ] 
Signators [ edit ] 
Boris Yeltsin (1931a2007) a President of Russia (1991a1999), Gennady Burbulis (born 1945) a State Secretary of Russia (1991a1992), Leonid Kravchuk (born 1934) a President of Ukraine (1991a1994), Vitold Fokin (born 1932) a Prime Minister of Ukraine (1991a1992), Stanislau Shushkevich (born 1934) a Chairman of Supreme Soviet of Belarus (1991a1994), Vyachaslau Kebich (born 1936) a Prime Minister of Belarus (1991a1994), . 
See also [ edit ] 
Dissolution of the Soviet Union, Union Treaty of 1922, which was denounced by the Belavezha Accords., . 
References [ edit ] 
^ Mikhail Sergeevich Gorbachev (2000). On my country and the world . Columbia University Press. ISBN978-0-231-11514-8. , ^ "Bush on the Commonwealth of Independent States". Archived from the original on 2009-10-31. , ^ "Document proclaiming death of Soviet Union missing". The Daily Telegraph (London). February 7, 2013. , External links [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Belavezha Accords ., Soviet Leaders Recall aInevitablea Breakup Of Soviet Union, Radio Free Europe , 8 December 2006, 14 Years of Belavezha Accordsa Signing, map location, . 
v , t , e , . Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) , Customs Union of Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Russia, Union State, . , Membership 
Members Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, . , Associate members Turkmenistan, . , Former members Georgia (1993a2009), Ukraine (1994-2014), . , History Russian Empire, Soviet Union, Union of Sovereign States, Belavezha Accords (Near abroad), Alma-Ata Protocol, . , Sports Unified Team at the Olympics, Unified Team at the Paralympics, CIS national bandy team, CIS national football team, CIS national ice hockey team, CIS national rugby team, CIS Cup (football), . , Military Collective Security Treaty Organization, Collective Rapid Reaction Force, Joint CIS Air Defense System, . , Economics Economic Court, CISFTA, Eurasian Economic Community, Eurasian Patent Convention, Eurasian Patent Organization, EU Technical Aid, . , Organization Interstate Aviation Committee, . , Category, . , Coordinates: 52A37a23aN 23A57a19aE i / i 52.6231AN 23.9554AE i / 52.6231; 23.9554 
Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Belavezha_Accords and oldid=631204447" Categories: Dissolution of the Soviet Union, Treaties of the Soviet Union, Treaties of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic, Treaties of Ukraine, Treaties of Belarus, RussiaaUkraine relations, BelarusaRussia relations, BelarusaUkraine relations, 1991 in the Soviet Union, 1991 in Ukraine, Treaties concluded in 1991, Treaties entered into force in 1991, Treaties of Russia, 1991 in Belarus, . Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from April 2008, All articles needing additional references, Articles containing Russian-language text, Articles containing Belarusian-language text, Articles containing Ukrainian-language text, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, Coordinates on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
AzErbaycanca, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, DNDDDNNDD, AeAtina, Dansk, EspaAol, FranAais, iei, Bahasa Indonesia, Italiano, ODDDOND, LatvieAu, LietuviA, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, Svenska, DDNDNDNNDD, Tiang Viat, . Edit links This page was last modified on 26 October 2014 at 16:43.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
