
Politics of Georgia (country) - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of Georgia (country) 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Georgia , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Georgia , Constitution Constitutional court, Human rights, . , Executive President Giorgi Margvelashvili , Prime Minister Irakli Garibashvili , . , Legislature Parliament Chairperson: Davit Usupashvili , . , Judiciary Supreme Court, . , Administrative divisions Regions ( mkhare ) , Districts, . , Elections Recent elections Parliamentary: 2008, 2012, . Presidential: 2008, 2013, . , Political parties, . , Foreign relations with the European Union, with NATO, with Russia, . , Related topics Rose Revolution, United Nations Observer Mission, Politics of Abkhazia, Politics of South Ossetia, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The Politics of Georgia is based on a semi-presidential representative democratic republic with a multi-party system, and the President as the head of state and the Prime Minister as the head of the Georgian Government. [ 1 ] Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament. Since the Rose Revolution, the party system has been dominated by the National Movement - Democrats. Georgia has been a democratic republic since the first multiparty, democratic parliamentary elections of October 28, 1990. The Georgian state is highly centralized, except for the autonomous regions of Abkhazia and Adjara and the former autonomous region of South Ossetia. Abkhazia and South Ossetia, which had autonomy within the Georgian SSR during Soviet rule, have unilaterally seceded from Georgia. While currently the Georgian government recognizes Abkhazia as autonomous within Georgia they do not recognize South Ossetia in any form.
Consideration of replacing Georgia's republic with some form of constitutional monarchy has become part of the Georgian political debate since the Georgian Orthodox primate and other leading Georgians suggested the idea in 2007. [ 2 ] [ 3 ] 
Contents
1 Recent developments , 2 Monarchist option , 3 Euro-Atlantic Integration , 4 Political conditions , 5 Executive branch , 6 Legislative branch , 7 Political parties and elections , 8 Judicial branch , 9 Administrative divisions , 10 International organization participation , 11 See also , 12 Further reading , 13 References , 14 External links , . 
Recent developments [ edit ] 
Further information: History of Georgia (country) A Saakashvili presidency (2004) 
, This section may be slanted towards recent events. Please try to keep recent events in historical perspective. (October 2008) , Following a crisis involving allegations of ballot fraud in the 2003 parliamentary elections, Eduard Shevardnadze resigned as president on November 23, 2003, in the bloodless Rose Revolution. The interim president was the speaker of the outgoing parliament (whose replacement was annulled), Nino Burjanadze. On January 4, 2004 Mikheil Saakashvili, leader of the United National Movement won the country's presidential election and was inaugurated on January 25.
Fresh parliamentary elections were held on March 28, 2004, where the United National Movement's parliamentary faction, the National Movement - Democrats (NMD), secured the vast majority of the seats (with ca. 75f the votes). Only one other party reached the 7hreshold: the Rightist Opposition with ca. 7.5The vote is believed to have been one of the freest ever held in independent Georgia although an upsurge of tension between the central government and the Ajarian leader Aslan Abashidze affected the elections in this region. Despite recognizing progress the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe noted the tendency to misuse state administration resources in favor of the ruling party.[2]
Tensions between Georgia and separatist authorities in Ajaria increased after the elections, climaxing on May 1, 2004 when Abashidze responded to military maneuvers held by Georgia near the region by having the three bridges connecting Ajaria and the rest of Georgia over the Choloki River blown up. On May 5, Abashidze was forced to flee Georgia as mass demonstrations in Batumi called for his resignation and Russia increased their pressure by deploying Security Council secretary Igor Ivanov.
On February 3, 2005, Prime Minister Zurab Zhvania died of carbon monoxide poisoning in an apparent gas leak at the home of Raul Usupov, deputy governor of Kvemo Kartli region. Later, Zhvania's close friend and a long-time ally, Finance Minister Zurab Nogaideli was appointed for the post by President Saakashvili.
Old Tbilisi showing a mosque and minaret in the background 
Under the Saakasvili administration Georgia has achieved considerable progress in eradicating corruption. In 2008 Transparency International ranked Georgia 67th in its Corruption Perceptions Index, with a score of 3.9 points out of 10 possible. [ 4 ] This represents the best result among the CIS countries and a dramatic improvement on Georgia's score in 2004, when the country was ranked 133rd with 2.0 points. [ 5 ] 
In January 2006 a new party, Georgia's Way, was created. The movement is led by former Foreign Minister Salome Zourabichvili, and appears to be relatively popular. An opinion poll conducted by the Georgian weekly Kviris Palitra and published on April 10, 2006 suggested that Salome Zourabichvili would garner 23.1f votes if a presidential election were held today. President Saakashvili ranked first with 33 an all-time low for the Georgian President - whilst no other individual managed to surpass double-digit levels of support. Georgia's Way has said it intends to have candidates for all the seats in Georgia's upcoming local elections, with Zourabichvili hoping to become Tbilisi Mayor.
On November 7, 2007, during a period of mass protests, President Saakashvili declared Tbilisi to be in a state of emergency. There were massive demonstrations and protests by the civil opposition, demanding the resignation of President Saakashvili. The Georgian police used teargas, batons, water cannons and high tech acoustic weapons in the streets of Tbilisi. Later that day, the President declared a state of emergency in the whole country of Georgia. The Russian government denied accusations of being involved or of interfering in the situation. President Saakashvili rejected all demands that he resign his position, but announced early presidential elections to be held in January 2008, effectively cutting his term in office by a year.
On November 16, 2007, Prime Minister of Georgia Zurab Noghaideli announced his resignation due to poor health conditions. Noghaideli underwent heart operation in April 2007 at St. Luke's Episcopal Hospital in Houston, Texas, which was led by the leading U.S. surgeon Dr. Charles Frazier.
President Saakashvili invited Vladimer ("Lado") Gurgenidze, MBA holder from Emory University, United States and former business executive, to succeed Noghaideli on the position of the PM on the same day. Gurgenidze was formally approved on the position and granted the trust of the Parliament of Georgia on November 22, 2007. Gurgenidze implemented only two changes in the Cabinet of Georgia so far, replacing Alexandre Lomaia, the former Minister for Education and Science and new Secretary of National Security Council with Maia Miminoshvili, former Head of the National Assessment and Examination Centre (NAEC). Prime Minister also invited Koba Subeliani, former Head of Municipal Accomplishment Service to succeed Giorgi Kheviashvili, former Minister for Refugees and Accommodation. New Prime Minister and two Ministers Koba Subeliani and Maia Miminoshvili were approved on their positions on November 22, 2007 by a confidence vote of the Parliament of Georgia.
Mikheil Saakashvili resigned from the position of the President on November 25, 2007 as the Constitution of Georgia requires the president stands down at least 45 days before the next election to be eligible for retaking part him/herself. The Speaker of the Parliament of Georgia Mrs. Nino Burjanadze took over the position until the results were announced on January 5, 2008.
Twenty-two people registered for the presidential elections, including the most recent president Mikheil Saakashvili, approved candidate of the united opposition Levan Gachechiladze, influential businessman Badri Patarkatsishvili, Leader of the New Right Party David Gamkrelidze, the Leader of the Georgian Labour Party Shalva Natelashvili, the Leader of Hope Party Irina Sarishvili-Chanturia and Giorgi Maisashvili.
Monarchist option [ edit ] 
Debate on the possible installation of a constitutional monarchy in Georgia was revitalized following the 7 October 2007 sermon of Catholicos-Patriarch Ilia II, the popular head of the Georgian Orthodox Church. The patriarch said, during his Sunday service at the Cathedral of the Holy Trinity, that restoration of the Bragrationi royal family was a "desirable dream of the Georgian people". He also emphasized that if the people of Georgia chose this model of governance, "a candidate to the crown should be selected among representatives of the royal dynasty, and he should be suitably raised to be king from childhood." [ 2 ] [ 3 ] 
Competition arose among the old dynasty's princes and supporters, as historians and jurists debated which Bagrationi has the strongest hereditary right to a throne that has been vacant for two centuries. [ 6 ] Although some Georgian monarchists support the Gruzinsky branch's claim, others support that of the re-patriated Mukhrani branch. Both branches descend in unbroken, legitimate male line from the medieval kings of Georgia down to Constantine II of Georgia who died in 1505.
David Bagration of Mukhrani, married Ana Bagration-Gruzinsky on 8 February 2009 at the Tbilisi Sameba Cathedral. [ 7 ] The marriage united the Gruzinsky and Mukhrani branches of the former Georgian royal family, and drew a crowd of 3, 000 spectators, officials, and foreign diplomats, as well as extensive coverage by the Georgian media. [ 6 ] 
Euro-Atlantic Integration [ edit ] 
EU Member states Current Enlargement agenda EaP participants Eastern European states outside EaP 
After the Rose Revolution Georgia started looking westwards. The government a with public support a aims at EU and NATO membership, and has created a Ministry for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration. [ 8 ] Within NATO, Georgia is currently in Intensified Dialogue; membership in the EU is a more distant project.
Political conditions [ edit ] 
The Abkhaz separatist dispute absorbs much of the government's attention. While a cease-fire is in effect about 250, 000 internally displaced persons (IDPs) who were driven from their homes during the conflict, constitute a vocal lobby. The government has offered the region considerable autonomy to encourage a settlement that would allow the IDPs (mainly ethnic Georgians from the Gali [ disambiguation needed ] district [ citation needed ] ) to return home, however the Abkhaz side refused to accept it.
Currently, Russian peacekeepers[3] are stationed in Abkhazia under the authority of the Commonwealth of Independent States, along with United Nations observers but both groups have recently had to restrict their activities due to increased mining and guerrilla [ citation needed ] . So far (by 2007) the negotiations have not resulted in any settlement. France, United Kingdom, Germany, Russia and the United States (who act as the members of the United Nations and the OSCE) continue to encourage a comprehensive settlement consistent with Georgian independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity. The UN observer force and other organizations are quietly encouraging grassroots cooperative and confidence-building measures in the region.
The parliament has instituted wideranging political reforms supportive of higher human rights standards, because between 1992 and 2003 (before the Rose Revolution of November 23, 2003) the Georgian human rights situation had been complicated. Despite the reforms by the new government, there are still numerous problems concerning respect for human rights in the country. Prisoners are frequently maltreated, journalists are intimidated by the authorities and much of the mainstream media is owned by government supporters. The police are often accused of planting evidence, beatings and the unnecessary killing of suspects. [ citation needed ] 
Executive branch [ edit ] 
See also: List of Georgian rulers 
The head of state is the President, who is elected for a term of five years. His constitutional successor is the Chairman of the Parliament speaker of parliament. The president appoints a Prime Minister, who serves as the head of government.
Main office holders Office Name Party Since President, Giorgi Margvelashvili, Georgian Dream, 17 November 2013, Prime Minister, Irakli Garibashvili, Georgian Dream, 20 November 2013, speaker of parliament, David Usupashvili, Georgian Dream, 21 October 2012, Legislative branch [ edit ] 
The Parliament of Georgia (Sak'art'velos Parlamenti), also known as the Umaghlesi Sabcho (Supreme Council), has 235 members, elected for a four-year term - 150 seats by proportional representation, 75 in single-seat constituencies and 10 given to the representatives of the displaced persons from the separatist region of Abkhazia. However, this situation will change when the next elections are held (likely to be 2008). According to the constitutional amendments passed in 2003 the parliament will consist of only 150 members elected with the proportional representation system and will be fully refurbished.
The Speaker of Parliament is Nino Burjanadze.
Political parties and elections [ edit ] 
For other political parties see List of political parties in Georgia. An overview on elections and election results is included in Elections in Georgia (country). 
ead Summary of the 1 October 2012 Georgian Parliament election results Party , Party-list , Constituency , Total
seats , +/a , Votes , b> , Seats , Seats , b> , Georgian Dream
Georgian Dream a Democratic Georgia, Conservative Party of Georgia, Industry Will Save Georgia, Republican Party of Georgia, Our Georgia a Free Democrats, National Forum, . , 1, 184, 612, 54.97, 44, 41, 85, 83 * , United National Movement, 873, 233, 40.34, 33, 32, 65, 54, Christian Democratic Union
Christian-Democratic Movement, European Democrats of Georgia, . , 44, 293, 2.05, 0, 0, 0, 0, 6, Labour Party of Georgia, 26, 759, 1.24, 0, 0, 0, 0, 6, New Rights, 9, 379, 0.43, 0, 0, 0, 0, 17, Free Georgia, 5, 892, 0.43, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, For a fair Georgia, 4, 091, 0.19, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, National Democratic Party, 3, 050, 0.14, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, Georgian Troupe, 2, 344, 0.11, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, Sportsmen Connection, 1, 575, 0.07, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, Tavisupleba (Freedom Movement), 1, 023, 0.05, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, Merab Kostava Society, 1, 011, 0.05, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, Future Georgia, 701, 0.03, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, Labour Council, 582, 0.03, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, People's Movement, 554, 0.03, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, People's Party, 534, 0.02, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, Blank/invalid votes, a, a, a, a, a, a, Total , 2, 159, 633 , 100 , 77 , 73 , 100 , 150 , Registered voters/turnout, 3, 613, 851, 59.76, a, a, a, a, a, Source: Central Election Commission of Georgia Results; Civil.ge, results of repeat polling
Note: * The Republican Party had two seats before the election. , Main article: Georgian parliamentary election, 2012 
ead Summary of the January 5, 2008 Georgian presidential election results Candidates Votes th> Mikheil Saakashvili, 1, 060, 042, 53.47, Levan Gachechiladze, 509, 234, 25.69, Badri Patarkatsishvili, 140, 826, 7.10, Shalva Natelashvili, 128, 589, 6.49, Davit Gamkrelidze, 79, 747, 4.02, Gia Maisashvili, 15, 249, 0.77, Irina Sarishvili-Chanturia, 3, 242, 0.16, Repealed ballots, 33, 129, 1.67, Invalid ballots, 12, 260, 0.61, Total 56.19urnout; 3, 527, 964 eligible voters, 1, 982, 318, 100.0, Main article: Georgian presidential election, 2008 
Judicial branch [ edit ] 
Georgia has a Supreme Court, with judges elected by the Parliament on the president's recommendation, and a Constitutional Court.
Administrative divisions [ edit ] 
Main article: Administrative divisions of Georgia (country) 
Georgia is divided into 2 autonomous republics ( avtonomiuri respublika ), 9 region ( mkhare ), and a capital territory.
Autonomous republics: Abkhazia, Ajaria., Mkhares: Guria, Imereti, Kakheti, Kvemo Kartli, Mtskheta-Mtianeti, Racha-Lechkhumi and Kvemo Svaneti, Samegrelo-Zemo Svaneti, Samtskhe-Javakheti, Shida Kartli., Capital city: Tbilisi, . 
The regions and autonomous republics are subdivided into 67 municipalities (Georgian: aaaaaaaaaaaaaa; before 2006 - raioni, Georgian: aaaaaa) and cities with local government:
Cities: Batumi, Kutaisi, Poti, Rustavi, Tbilisi , Tskhinvali., Districts: Abasha, Adigeni, Akhalgori, Akhalkalaki, Akhaltsikhe, Akhmeta, Ambrolauri, Aspindza, Baghdati, Bolnisi, Borjomi, Chiatura, Chkhorotsku, Chokhatauri, Dedoplistsqaro, Dmanisi, Dusheti, Gagra, Gali, Gardabani, Gori, Gudauta, Gulripshi, Gurjaani, Java, Kareli, Kaspi, Kazbegi, Keda, Kharagauli, Khashuri, Khelvachauri, Khobi, Khoni, Khulo, Kobuleti, Lagodekhi, Lanchkhuti, Lentekhi, Marneuli, Martvili, Mestia, Mtskheta, Ninotsminda, Ochamchire, Oni, Ozurgeti, Qvareli, Sachkhere, Sagarejo, Samtredia, Senaki, Shuakhevi, Sighnaghi, Sukhumi, Telavi, Terjola, Tetritsqaro, Tianeti, Tkibuli, Tsageri, Tsalenjikha, Tsalka, Tskaltubo, Vani, Zestaponi, Zugdidi, . note: administrative divisions have the same names as their administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center name following in parentheses) 
International organization participation [ edit ] 
BSEC, Council of Europe, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, FAO, GUAM, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, International Chamber of Commerce, International Criminal Court (ICC), ITUC, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, International Maritime Organization, Inmarsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (correspondent), ITU, OAS (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PFP, United Nations, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCO, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO
See also [ edit ] 
, Georgia portal, Politics portal, Human rights in Georgia (country), Rose Revolution, Monarchy in Georgia, www.royalhouseofgeorgia.ge, . 
Further reading [ edit ] 
Mataradze, Teona; MAhlfried, Florian: "Leaving and Being Left Behind: Labor Migration in Georgia" in the Caucasus Analytical Digeast No. 4, Organized Crime and Illegal Trafficking in the Caucasus. Articles in the Caucasus Analytical Digest No. 9, Cooley, Alexander; Mitchell, Lincoln: "Georgia: The Interconnections between Democracy and Security" in the Caucasus Analytical Digest No. 17, Anti-Corruption Reforms in Georgia. Articles in the Caucasus Analytical Digest No. 26, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ Constitution of Georgia , ^ a b Zaza Jgharkava (October 18, 2007). Will a Constitutional Monarchy Be Restored in Georgia?. Georgia Today, Issue #379. , ^ a b Giorgi Lomsadze (December 18, 2007). Time for a King for Georgia?. EurasiaNet Civil Society. , ^ Corruption Perceptions Index 2008. Transparency International. Accessed on September 23, 2008 , ^ Corruption Perceptions Index 2004. Transparency International. Accessed on September 23, 2008 , ^ a b Vignanski, Misha (02/08/2009), "Primera boda real en dos siglos reagrupa dos ramas de la dinastAa Bagration", written at Tiflis, el confidencial (Spain) , retrieved 02/09/2009 Check date values in: date=, accessdate= (help) , ^ [1] , ^ Minister on European and Euro-Atlantic Integration , External links [ edit ] 
Erik Herron's Guide to Politics of East Central Europe and Eurasia, . 
v , t , e , . Politics of Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia , Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_Georgia_(country) and oldid=613593432" Categories: Politics of Georgia (country), . Hidden categories: CS1 errors: dates, Articles slanted towards recent events from October 2008, Articles with links needing disambiguation from August 2011, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from April 2007, Articles with unsourced statements from April 2011, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DNDDDNNDD, Deutsch, FranAais, RomAnA, Svenska, DDNDNDNNDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 19 June 2014 at 18:43.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
