
Glasnost - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Glasnost 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search For other uses, see Glasnost (disambiguation). 
Glasnost, Russian DDDINDDNNN, Romanization glasnost, Literal meaning publicity, Glasnost (Russian: DDDINDDNNN , IPA: [EElasnEsEtE] ( listen ) , lit. "publicity") was a policy that called for increased openness and transparency in government institutions and activities in the Soviet Union. Introduced by Mikhail Gorbachev in the second half of the 1980s, [ 1 ] Glasnost is often paired with Perestroika (literally: Restructuring), another reform instituted by Gorbachev at the same time. The word "glasnost" has been used in Russian at least since the end of the 18th century. [ 2 ] 
The word was frequently used by Gorbachev to specify the policies he believed might help reduce the corruption at the top of the Communist Party and the Soviet government and moderate the abuse of administrative power in the Central Committee. Russian human rights activist and dissident Lyudmila Alexeyeva explained "glasnost" as a word that "had been in the Russian language for centuries. It was in the dictionaries and lawbooks as long as there had been dictionaries and lawbooks. It was an ordinary, hardworking, nondescript word that was used to refer to a process, any process of justice of governance, being conducted in the open." [ 3 ] 
Glasnost can also refer to the specific period in the history of the USSR during the 1980s when there was less censorship and greater freedom of information.
Contents
1 Areas of concern , 2 Effects 2.1 Greater transparency , 2.2 Internal calls for independence , . , 3 See also , 4 Notes , 5 References , . 
Areas of concern [ edit ] 
Gorbachev's policy interpretation of "glasnost" can best be summarized, translated, and explained in English with one word: "openness." While "glasnost" is associated with freedom of speech, the main goal of this policy was to make the country's management transparent and open to debate, thus circumventing the narrow circle of apparatchiks who previously exercised complete control of the economy. Through reviewing the past or by opening up the censored literature in the libraries [ 4 ] [ 5 ] and a greater freedom of speech: a radical change, as control of speech and suppression of government criticism had previously been a central part of the Soviet system. There was also a greater degree of freedom within the media.
In the late 1980s, the Soviet government came under increased criticism, as did Leninist ideology (which Gorbachev had attempted to preserve as the foundation for reform), and members of the Soviet population were more outspoken in their view that the Soviet government had become a failure. Glasnost did indeed provide freedom of expression, far beyond what Gorbachev had intended, and changed citizens' views towards the government, which played a key role in the demise of the Soviet Union.
Effects [ edit ] 
Greater transparency [ edit ] 
Relaxation of censorship resulted in the Communist Party losing its grip on the media. Before long, much to the embarrassment of the authorities, the media began to expose severe social and economic problems which the Soviet government had long denied and covered up. Long-denied problems such as poor housing, food shortages, alcoholism, widespread pollution, creeping mortality rates and the second-rate position of women were now receiving increased attention, as well as the history of Soviet state crimes against the population. In addition to serious explorations of the Soviet past and present situation relaxation of censorship resulted in an explosion of popular culture including popular Western literature and films and books on astrology, religion, and flying saucers, in short, anything official Soviet publishers had not deemed worth publishing. [ 6 ] 
Moreover, under glasnost, the people were able to learn significantly more about the past, including the purges and other previously classified activities. Although Nikita Khrushchev denounced Stalin's personality cult, information about the true proportions of his atrocities was still suppressed. In all, the very positive view of Soviet life which had long been presented to the public by the official media was being rapidly dismantled, and the negative aspects of life in the Soviet Union were brought into the spotlight. This began to undermine the faith of the public in the Soviet system.
Revelations about Soviet history had a devastating effect on those who had faith in state communism and who had never been exposed to this information. There was a sense of betrayal and hopelessness as the driving vision of society was demonstrated to have been built on a foundation of falsehood and crimes against humanity. [ 7 ] 
In addition to the exposure of hardship and problems in the Soviet Union, aspects about the outside worldasuch as the high quality of life in the United States and much of the Westabegan to be exposed to the Soviets. [ 7 ] 
Internal calls for independence [ edit ] 
Political openness continued to produce unintended consequences. In elections to the regional assemblies of the Soviet Union's constituent republics, nationalists swept the board. As Gorbachev had weakened the system of internal political repression, the ability of the USSR's central Moscow government to impose its will on the USSR's constituent republics had been largely undermined. During the 1980s, calls for greater independence from Moscow's rule grew louder. This was especially marked in the Baltic Republics of Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia, which had been annexed into the Soviet Union by Joseph Stalin in 1940. Nationalist feeling also took hold in other Soviet republics such as Ukraine, Georgia and Azerbaijan.
Starting in the mid-1980s, the Baltic states used the reforms provided by glasnost to assert their rights to protect their environment (for example during the Phosphorite War) and their historic monuments and, later, their claims to sovereignty and independence. When the Balts withstood outside threats, they exposed an irresolute Kremlin. Bolstering separatism in other Soviet republics, the Balts triggered multiple challenges to the Soviet Union. Supported by Russian leader Boris Yeltsin, the Baltic republics asserted their sovereignty.
The rise of nationalism under glasnost also reawakened simmering ethnic tensions throughout the union. For example, in February 1988, Nagorno-Karabakh, a predominantly ethnic Armenian region in the Azerbaijan SSR, passed a resolution calling for unification with the Armenian SSR, which sparked the Nagorno-Karabakh War.
The freedoms generated under glasnost enabled increased contact between Soviet citizens and the Western world, particularly with the United States. Restrictions on travel were loosened, allowing increased business and cultural contact. For example, one key meeting location was in the U.S. at the Dakin Building, then owned by American philanthropist Henry Dakin, who had extensive Russian contacts:
During the late 1980s, as glasnost and perestroika led to the liquidation of the Soviet empire, the Dakin building was the location for a series of groups facilitating United States-Russian contacts. They included the Center for U.S.-U.S.S.R. Initiatives, which helped more than 1000 Americans visit the Soviet Union and more than 100 then-Soviet citizens visit the U.S. [ 8 ] 
While thousands of political prisoners and many dissidents were released in the spirit of glasnost, Gorbachev's original goal of using glasnost and perestroika to reform the Soviet Union was not achieved. In 1991, the Soviet Union was dissolved following a failed coup by conservative elements who were opposed to Gorbachev's reforms.
See also [ edit ] 
Demokratizatsiya, Glasnost Bowl, Glasnost The Game , Perestroika, . 
Notes [ edit ] 
^ Milestones in Glasnost and Perestroyka: Politics and People . Brookings Institution Press. 1991. ISBN0-8157-3623-1. , ^ DDDDDNN DDDDDDDD DDNNDDNDDD. DDNNN II (in Russian). DDD.: DDDDNDNDNNDDN DDDDDDDN DDND. 1790. p.72. , ^ Alexeyeva, Lyumila and Paul Goldberg The Thaw Generation: Coming of Age in the Post-Stalin Era Pennsylvania: University of Pittsburgh Press, 1990. , ^ Glasnost im sowjetischen Bibliothekswesen (by Peter Bruhn) , ^ D.D. DDDDDD: DDDDNNDDDD DDNDDNDNDD in: DDDDNNDDN DDDDDDDNDNDN, 1988, 6 (231), P.3-12 , ^ Shane, Scott (1994). "A Normal Country: The Pop Culture Explosion". Dismantling Utopia: How Information Ended the Soviet Union . Chicago: Ivan R. Dee. pp.182 to 211. ISBN1-56663-048-7. "...market forces had taken over publishing..." , ^ a b Shane, Scott (1994). "Letting Go of the Leninist Faith". Dismantling Utopia: How Information Ended the Soviet Union . Chicago: Ivan R. Dee. pp.212 to 244. ISBN1-56663-048-7. "All this degradation and hypocrisy is laid not just at the feet of Stalin but of Lenin and the Revolution that made his rule possible." , ^ Cyberspace , San Francisco Chronicle, Page A-14, November 20, 1995 , References [ edit ] 
, Look up glasnost in Wiktionary, the free dictionary., Cohen, Stephen F.; Katrina Vanden Heuvel (1989 repr. 1990). Voices of Glasnost: Interviews With Gorbachev's Reformers . W. W. Norton and Company. ISBN0-393-30735-2. Check date values in: date= (help) , Gibbs, Joseph (1999). Gorbachev's Glasnost: The Soviet Media in the First Phase of Perestroika . Texas A and M University Press. ISBN0-89096-892-6. , . 
v , t , e , . Revolutions of 1989 , Internal background Era of Stagnation, Communism, Anti-communism, Criticism of communism, Eastern Bloc, Eastern Bloc economies, Eastern Bloc politics, Eastern Bloc information dissemination, Eastern Bloc emigration and defection, KGB, Nomenklatura, Shortage economy, Totalitarianism, Eastern European Anti-Communist Insurgencies, . , International background Active measures, Cold War, List of socialist states, Predictions of Soviet collapse, Reagan Doctrine, Soviet imperialism, Terrorism and the Soviet Union, Vatican Opposition, Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia, . , Reforms Socialism with Chinese characteristics, Perestroika, Glasnost , Democratisation in the Soviet Union, Sinatra Doctrine, Doi Moi, . , Government leaders Ramiz Alia, Nicolae CeauAescu, Mikhail Gorbachev, KAroly GrAsz, Erich Honecker, JAnos KAdAr, MiloA JakeA, Egon Krenz, Wojciech Jaruzelski, Slobodan MiloAeviA, Mathieu KArAkou, Mengistu Haile Mariam, Ne Win, Denis Sassou Nguesso, Heng Samrin, Deng Xiaoping, Todor Zhivkov, Siad Barre, . , Opposition methods Civil resistance, Demonstrations, Human chains, Magnitizdat, Polish underground press, Protests, Samizdat, Strike action, . , Opposition leaders Lech WaAAsa, VAclav Havel, Alexander DubAek, Ion Iliescu, Wu'erkaixi, Chai Ling, Wang Dan, Feng Congde, Tank Man, Joachim Gauck, Sali Berisha, SanjaasArengiin Zorig, Vladimir Bukovsky, Boris Yeltsin, Viacheslav Chornovil, Vytautas Landsbergis, Zianon Pazniak, Zhelyu Zhelev, Aung San Suu Kyi, Meles Zenawi, Isaias Afewerki, . , Opposition movements Charter 77, New Forum, Civic Forum, Democratic Party of Albania, Democratic Russia, Initiative for Peace and Human Rights, SAjAdis, Peaceful Revolution, People's Movement of Ukraine, Solidarity, Popular Front of Latvia, Popular Front of Estonia, Public Against Violence, Belarusian Popular Front, National League for Democracy, National Salvation Front, Union of Democratic Forces, . , Events by location 
Central and Eastern Europe Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Soviet Union, Yugoslavia, . , Soviet Union Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Chechnya, Estonia, Georgia, Latvia, Lithuania, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikstan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, . , Elsewhere Afghanistan, Angola, Benin, Burma, Cambodia, China, Congo-Brazzaville, Ethiopia, Mongolia, Mozambique, Somalia, South Yemen, . , Individual events 1988 Polish strikes, April 9 tragedy, Black January, Baltic Way, Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, Removal of Hungary's border fence, Polish Round Table Agreement, Hungarian Round Table Talks, Pan-European Picnic, Monday Demonstrations, Alexanderplatz demonstration, Malta Summit, German reunification, January Events in Lithuania, January Events in Latvia, March 1991 protests in Belgrade, August Coup, Dissolution of the Soviet Union, . , Later events Colour revolution, Decommunization, Lustration, Democratization, Economic liberalization, Post-Soviet conflicts, Neo-Sovietism, Neo-Stalinism, Post-communism, Yugoslav Wars, . , v , t , e , . Cold War , USA , USSR , ANZUS, NATO, Non-Aligned Movement, SEATO, Warsaw Pact, . , 1940s Dekemvriana, Yalta Conference, Operation Unthinkable , Potsdam Conference, Gouzenko Affair, Operation Masterdom , Operation Beleaguer , Operation Blacklist Forty , Iran crisis of 1946, Greek Civil War, Corfu Channel incident, Turkish Straits crisis, Restatement of Policy on Germany, First Indochina War, Truman Doctrine, Asian Relations Conference, Marshall Plan, 1948 Czechoslovak coup d'Atat, TitoaStalin split, Berlin Blockade, Western betrayal, Iron Curtain, Eastern Bloc, Western Bloc, Chinese Civil War (Second round), Malayan Emergency, . , 1950s Bamboo Curtain, Korean War, 1953 Iranian coup d'Atat, Uprising of 1953 in East Germany, 1954 Guatemalan coup d'Atat, Partition of Vietnam, First Taiwan Strait Crisis, Geneva Summit (1955), PoznaA 1956 protests, Hungarian Revolution of 1956, Suez Crisis, Sputnik crisis, Second Taiwan Strait Crisis, Cuban Revolution, Kitchen Debate, Bandung Conference, Bricker Amendment, McCarthyism, Operation Gladio, Iraqi July Revolution, "We will bury you", . , 1960s Congo Crisis, Sino-Soviet split, 1960 U-2 incident, Bay of Pigs Invasion, 1960 Turkish coup d'Atat, SovietaAlbanian split, Berlin Wall, Portuguese Colonial War (Angolan War of Independence , Guinea-Bissau War of Independence , Mozambican War of Independence) , Cuban missile crisis, Sino-Indian War, Sarawak Communist Insurgency, Iraqi Ramadan Revolution, 1963 Syrian coup d'Atat, Vietnam War, 1964 Brazilian coup d'Atat, United States occupation of the Dominican Republic (1965a66), South African Border War, Transition to the New Order, Domino theory, ASEAN Declaration, Laotian Civil War, 1966 Syrian coup d'Atat, Argentine Revolution, Korean DMZ Conflict, Greek military junta of 1967a74, USS Pueblo incident, Six-Day War, War of Attrition, Cultural Revolution, Prague Spring, Malaysia Communist Insurgency War, Invasion of Czechoslovakia, Iraqi Ba'athist Revolution, Goulash Communism, Sino-Soviet border conflict, Communist insurgency in the Philippines, Corrective Move, . , 1970s DAtente, Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, Black September in Jordan, 1970 Syrian Corrective Revolution, Cambodian Civil War, Realpolitik, Ping-pong diplomacy, 1971 Turkish coup d'Atat, Corrective Revolution (Egypt), Four Power Agreement on Berlin, 1972 Nixon visit to China, 1973 Chilean coup d'Atat, Yom Kippur War, Carnation Revolution, Strategic Arms Limitation Talks, Rhodesian Bush War, Angolan Civil War, Mozambican Civil War, Ogaden War, Ethiopian Civil War, Lebanese Civil War, Sino-Albanian split, CambodianaVietnamese War, Sino-Vietnamese War, Iranian Revolution, Operation Condor , Dirty War, Bangladesh Liberation War, Korean Air Lines Flight 902, Seven Days to the River Rhine, . , 1980s Soviet war in Afghanistan, 1980 and 1984 Summer Olympics boycotts, 1980 Turkish coup d'Atat, 1986 Black Sea incident, 1988 Black Sea bumping incident, Solidarity Soviet reaction, . , Contras, Central American crisis, RYAN, Korean Air Lines Flight 007, Able Archer 83, Star Wars, Invasion of Grenada, People Power Revolution, Nagorno-Karabakh War, Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, Fall of the Berlin Wall, Revolutions of 1989, Glasnost , Perestroika, . , 1990s Mongolian Revolution of 1990, Breakup of Yugoslavia, Dissolution of the Soviet Union, Dissolution of Czechoslovakia, . , Frozen conflicts Abkhazia, China, Korea, Nagorno-Karabakh, South Ossetia, Transnistria, Sino-Indian border dispute, . , Foreign policy Truman Doctrine, Marshall Plan, Containment, Eisenhower Doctrine, Domino theory, Hallstein Doctrine, Kennedy Doctrine, Peaceful coexistence, Ostpolitik, Johnson Doctrine, Brezhnev Doctrine, Nixon Doctrine, Ulbricht Doctrine, Carter Doctrine, Reagan Doctrine, Rollback, Sovereignty of Puerto Rico during the Cold War, . , Ideologies Capitalism Chicago school, Keynesianism, Monetarism, Neoclassical economics, Reaganomics, Supply-side economics, Thatcherism, . , . Communism MarxismaLeninism, Castroism, Eurocommunism, Guevarism, Hoxhaism, Juche, Maoism, Naxalism, Stalinism, Titoism, . , . Liberal democracy, Social democracy, . , Organizations ASEAN, CIA, Comecon, EEC, KGB, Non-Aligned Movement, SAARC, Safari Club, MI6, Stasi, . , Propaganda Active measures, Izvestia , Pravda , Crusade for Freedom, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Red Scare, TASS, Voice of America, Voice of Russia, . , Races Arms race, Nuclear arms race, Space Race, . , See also Brinkmanship, NATOaRussia relations, Soviet espionage in U.S., Russian espionage in U.S., Soviet UnionaUnited States relations, USaSoviet summits, . , Category , Portal, Timeline, List of conflicts, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Glasnost and oldid=628655012" Categories: Soviet phraseology, Soviet internal politics, Transparency (behavior), Dissolution of the Soviet Union, Mikhail Gorbachev, 1980s in the Soviet Union, Free software, Political slogans, Perestroika, Reform in the Soviet Union, . Hidden categories: CS1 Russian-language sources (ru), Articles containing Russian-language text, CS1 errors: dates, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, Asturianu, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, DNDDDNNDD, CatalA, AeAtina, Dansk, Deutsch, Eesti, EspaAol, Esperanto, Euskara, UOOOU, FranAais, Galego, iei, Hrvatski, Ido, Bahasa Indonesia, Italiano, ODDDOND, Latina, LatvieAu, LAtzebuergesch, LietuviA, Magyar, Bahasa Melayu, aaaaaaaaaa, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, aaaaaa, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, Sicilianu, Simple English, SlovenAina, DNDNDD / srpski, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Suomi, Svenska, Tagalog, aaa, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, Tiang Viat, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 7 October 2014 at 14:39.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
