
Government of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Government of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (October 2014) , This article is about only executive branch, headed by the Prime Minister. For all branches, see Politics of Russia. 
Government of the Russian Federation , Government overview Formed 1993, Jurisdiction Russia, Headquarters White House, Moscow, Minister responsible Dmitry Medvedev, Prime Minister, Website government.ru, Russia , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Russia , Constitution, Law, . Impeachment, Mental Health Law, Russian Criminal Code, Tax Code, . , Presidency President: Vladimir Putin, . Presidential Administration, Security Council, State Council, . , Executive Prime Minister: Dmitry Medvedev, . Government , Cabinet (14th) , . , Legislature Federal Assembly, Federation Council, State Duma, . , . , Judiciary Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, Prosecutor General, Supreme Court of Arbitration, Legal system, . , Elections Presidential elections, Legislative elections, Central Election Commission, Electoral geography, Political parties, . , Foreign relations United Nations, ArabaIsraeli conflict, . , Related topics Administrative divisions, Federal subjects, Regional parliaments, Armed forces, Martial law, . , Civic Chamber, Accounts Chamber, E-Government, Opposition, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The Government of the Russian Federation (Russian: DNDDDINDDNNNDD DDNNDIDNDDD DDDDNDINDD ) exercises executive power in the Russian Federation. The members of the government are the Prime Minister of Russia (Chairman of the Government), the deputy prime ministers, and the federal ministers. It has its legal basis in the Constitution of the Russian Federation and the federal constitutional law "On the Government of the Russian Federation". [ 1 ] 
According to the 1978 Russian Constitution, the President of Russia was a head of executive branch and headed the Council of Ministers of Russia. According to the current 1993 Constitution of Russia, the President of Russia is not a part of the Government of Russia, which exercises executive power. The Chapter 6 of the Constitution of Russia says, that "The Government of the Russian Federation consists of the Chairman of the Government of the Russian Federation, Deputy Chairman of the Government of the Russian Federation and federal ministries".
Contents
1 Overview , 2 History , 3 Responsibilities and power , 4 Current Cabinet , 5 See also , 6 References , 7 External links , . 
Overview [ edit ] 
After the fall of the Soviet Union, the Russian Council of Ministers had become the main executive body. At some points it contained over 69 state committees, 16a17 ministers, 5 federal services, and over 46 governmental agencies. After the 2004 reform, government duties were split between 17 ministries, 5 federal services, and over 30 governmental agencies.
The prime minister is appointed by the president of the Russian Federation (currently Vladimir Putin), and confirmed by the State Duma. He or she succeeds to the presidency if the current president dies, is incapacitated, or resigns. The current prime minister is Dmitry Medvedev.
History [ edit ] 
The body was preceded by Government of the Soviet Union. Since the Russian Federation emerged in 1991, the government's structure has undergone several major changes. In the initial years, government bodies, primarily the different ministries, underwent massive reorganization as the old Soviet governing networks were adapted to the new state. Many reshuffles and renamings occurred.
On November28, 1991, President of the RSFSR Boris Yeltsin signed presidential decree No.242 "On reorganization of the government bodies of the RSFSR" (Russian: "D NDDNDDDDDDNDD NDDNNDDNDNN DNDDDDD DDNNDDNNNDDDDDDD NDNDDDDDDN DDDDD").
The most recent change took place on May21, 2012 when President Vladimir Putin signed presidential decree on forming Dmitry Medvedev's Cabinet. [ 2 ] [ 3 ] 
Responsibilities and power [ edit ] 
See also: Order of the Government of Russia 
The government is the subject of the 6th chapter of the Constitution of the Russian Federation. According to the constitution, the government of the Russian Federation must:
draft and submit the federal budget to the State Duma; ensure the implementation of the budget and report on its implementation to the State Duma;, ensure the implementation of a uniform financial, credit and monetary policy in the Russian Federation;, ensure the implementation of a uniform state policy in the areas of culture, science, education, health protection, social security and ecology;, manage federal property;, adopt measures to ensure the country's defense, state security, and the implementation of the foreign policy of the Russian Federation;, implement measures to ensure the rule of law, human rights and freedoms, the protection of property and public order, and crime control;, exercise any other powers vested in it by the Constitution of the Russian Federation, federal laws and presidential decrees. [ 4 ] , The government issues its acts in the way of decisions (DDNNDDDDDDDDN) and orders (DDNDDNNDDDDN). These must not contradict the constitution, federal constitutional laws, federal laws, and Presidential decrees, and are signed by the Prime Minister.
Current Cabinet [ edit ] 
Main article: Dmitry Medvedev's Cabinet 
The cabinet consists of the following members: [ 5 ] 
Office, Name, Political party, Chairman of the Government, Dmitry Medvedev , United Russia, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sergey Lavrov, United Russia, Minister of Internal Affairs, Vladimir Kolokoltsev, United Russia, Minister of Finance, Anton Siluanov, United Russia, Minister of Defense, Sergei Shoygu, United Russia, Minister of Emergency Situations, Vladimir Puchkov, a, Minister of Justice, Alexander Konovalov, United Russia, Minister of Industry and Trade, Denis Manturov, United Russia, Minister for Economic Development, Alexey Ulyukaev, a, Minister for Regional Development, Igor Slyunyayev, United Russia, Ministry of Health, Veronika Skvortsova, a, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Maxim Topilin, United Russia, Minister of Education and Science, Dmitry Livanov, United Russia, Minister of Transport, Maksim Sokolov, United Russia, Minister for Natural Resources and Environmental Protection, Sergey Donskoy, a, Minister of Energy, Alexander Novak, United Russia, Minister of Culture, Vladimir Medinsky, United Russia, Minister of Sports, Vitaliy Mutko, United Russia, Minister of Communications and Mass Media, Nikolai Nikiforov, United Russia, Minister of Agriculture, Nikolay Fyodorov, United Russia, Minister of Russian Far East, Alexander Galushka, Minister for Crimean Affairs, Oleg Savelyev, Offices with the status of Minister Head of Commission for Open Government affairs, Mikhail Abyzov, United Russia, First Deputy Chairman, Head of 2014 Winter Olympics Commission, Igor Shuvalov, a, Deputy Chairman and Head of the Government Administration, Sergey Prikhodko, United Russia, Deputy Chairman and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the North Caucasus Federal District, Alexander Khloponin, United Russia, Deputy Chairman and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District, Yuri Trutnev, United Russia, Deputy Chairman for industry and energy, Arkady Dvorkovich, United Russia, Deputy Chairman for Social Affairs, Olga Golodets, a, Deputy Chairman, Dmitry Kozak, a, Deputy Chairman for Defense Industries, Dmitry Rogozin, a, Aid to Prime Minister, Janna Odintsova [ 6 ] , a, See also [ edit ] 
List of heads of government of Russia, Government of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic, Government of the Soviet Union, Russian Foreign Services, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ Russian Government web portal a Text of 1997 Federal Constitutional Law "On the Government of the Russian Federation" (in Russian) , ^ Russian source, Vesti.ru , ^ New Cabinet Has Familiar Cast of Characters, Moscow Times, May 21, 2012 , ^ The Constitution of the Russian Federation: Chapter 6 [ dead link ] , ^ Governmental Structure , ^ Russian source: Janna Odinsova was appointed as Aid to Prime Minister, Vesti.ru , External links [ edit ] 
Official website of the Government of Russia, Organigram of the federal executive bodies at government website (Russian) , . 
v , t , e , . Government of the Russian Federation , Offices subordinated to the President of Russia , Ministry of Internal Affairs Police of the Russian Federation, Internal Troops, . , Ministry for Affairs of Civil Defence, Emergencies and Disaster Relief Russian State Fire Service, State Inspectorate for Small Ships, . , Ministry of Foreign Affairs Agency of CIS affairs, . , Ministry of Defence Service of Military-Technical Cooperation, Service of Technical and Export Control, Service for Defence Contracts, Agency of Special Construction, . , Ministry of Justice Federal Penitentiary Service, Service of Court Bailiffs, . , Presidential Services
and Directorates Foreign Intelligence Service, Federal Security Service, Federal Drug Control Service of Russia, Federal Protective Service, Special Communications Service, State Courier Service, Chief Directorate of Special Programs of the President, Federal Financial Monitoring, Directorate of the President, . , Offices subordinated to Government of Russia head by the Chairman , Ministry of Health Service of Supervision in the Sphere of Public Health Services, Medical and Biologic Agency, . , Ministry of Culture Federal Archival Agency, . , Ministry of Education
and Science Service for Supervision in the Sphere of Education and Science, Service for Intellectual Property, Patents and Trademarks, Agency of Education, Agency of Science and Innovation, Federal Youth Agency, . , Ministry of Natural Resources
and Environment Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring, Service of Supervision in Sphere of Wildlife Management, Agency of Water Resources, Agency on the use of Mineral Resources, . , Ministry of Industry and Trade Agency of Technical Regulation and Metrology, . , Ministry of Regional Development , Ministry for Development of Russian Far East , Ministry of Crimean Affairs , Ministry of Communications
and Mass Media Agency of Communication, Agency on Information Technologies, Federal Agency on Press and Mass Communications of the Russian Federation, Federal Service for Supervision of Communications, Information Technology and Mass Media, . , Ministry of Agriculture Service of Veterinary and Phytosanitary Supervision, Agency of Forestry, Agency of Fisheries, . , Ministry of Sport , Ministry of Construction, Housing and Utilities , Ministry of Transport Federal Service of Supervision of Transport, Air Transport Agency, Road Agency, Agency of Railway Transport, Agency of Sea and River Transport, . , Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Federal Service for Labour and Employment, . , Ministry of Finance Federal Tax Service, Service of Insurance Supervision, Service of Financial-Budgetary Supervision, Treasury, . , Ministry of Economic
Development Agency for State Reserves, Agency for State Property Management, State Statistics, . , Ministry of Energy Russian Energy Agency, . , Governmental committees, services and agencies Federal Migratory Service, Federal Antimonopoly Service, Federal Service for Supervision of Consumer Rights Protection and Human Welfare, Service for Hydrometeorology and the Monitoring of the Environment, Federal Customs Service, Service of Ecological, Technological and Nuclear Supervision, Service on Tariffs, Federal Financial Monitoring Service, Financial Market Service, Federal Space Agency, Agency for Deliveries of Military and Special Equipment of Material Means, Agency on the Arrangement of the State Boundary, Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography, . , v , t , e , . Constitutions of Russia and the Soviet Union , Constitutions of Russia 1906, 1917, 1918, 1925, 1937, 1978, 1993, . , Constitutions of the Soviet Union 1924, 1936, 1977, . , v , t , e , . Current Cabinet of Ministers of the Russian Federation , Current Government of Russia , Prime Minister and his Deputies Dmitry Medvedev , Igor Shuvalov , Olga Golodets , Arkady Dvorkovich , Alexander Khloponin , Yuri Trutnev , Dmitry Kozak , Dmitry Rogozin , Sergei Prikhodko , . , Federal Ministers Sergey Lavrov, Vladimir Kolokoltsev, Anton Siluanov, Sergey Shoygu, Vladimir Puchkov, Alexander Konovalov, Denis Manturov, Andrey Belousov, Oleg Govorun, Veronika Skvortsova, Maxim Topilin, Maxim Sokolov, Dmitry Livanov, Sergey Donskoy, Alexander Novak, Vitaly Mutko, Vladimir Medinsky, Nikolai Nikiforov, Nikolay Fyodorov, Mikhail Abyzov, Alexander Galushka, . , v , t , e , . Cabinets of the Government of Russia , Chernomyrdin I (1992a1996) , Chernomyrdin II (1996a1998) , Kiriyenko (1998) , Primakov (1998a1999) , Stepashin (1999) , Putin I (1999) , Kasyanov (2000a2004) , Fradkov I (2004) , Fradkov II (2004a2007) , Zubkov (2007a2008) , Putin II (2008a2012) , Medvedev (since 2012) , . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government , Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Governments of Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , v , t , e , . Governments of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia , Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Government_of_Russia and oldid=631369057" Categories: Government of Russia, Executive branches of government, History of Russia (1992apresent), . Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links, Articles with dead external links from May 2011, Articles needing additional references from October 2014, All articles needing additional references, Articles containing Russian-language text, Articles with Russian-language external links, Use mdy dates from May 2011, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, DDNODNNND, Deutsch, EspaAol, FranAais, Hrvatski, Italiano, LietuviA, DDDDDDDNDD, Nederlands, aeaee, Polski, DNNNDDD, DNDNDD / srpski, DDNDNND/tatarAa, DDNDNDNNDD, Tiang Viat, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 27 October 2014 at 20:33.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
