
Graffiti in Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Graffiti in Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search "Let's burn the Jews!". Antisemitic graffiti in Oryol, Russia. 
In Russia , graffiti (or street art ) is an ambiguous phenomenon, i.e. considered to be desecration by some, and art by others. [ 1 ] It is done for a variety of reasons, including expressing oneself through an art form, or protesting against a corporation or ideology.
Contents
1 Festivals and gatherings , 2 Protests , 3 Other cases , 4 References , 5 External links , . 
Festivals and gatherings [ edit ] 
Although graffiti historically was never completely welcome in Russia, as graffiti artists were often part of Russia's underground movement, modern trends have made the practice more mainstream and accepted. Moscow's Dream Energy graffiti festival "encourages Russiaas graffiti artists to come out and let their creativity go wild, painting the gray walls of Moscowas ubiquitous power stations". "Grammatika", a graffiti show that took place in Russia from March 12 to March 18, 2012, featured work from twelve Russian graffiti writers: Bioks, Page2, Camin, Ramze, Oxake, Yoker, Uran, Rocks, Kesit, Coast, Vika, and Gnutov. [ 2 ] Founded by Berlin graffiti writer Akim, "Sign Your Style" is a graffiti festival, held in Moscow on May 7, and on May 13 in Saint Petersburg, Russia. In the preview video, Petro, a judge for the competition part of the festival, shows in how he expects writers participating to "simply go off and get creative", by freestyling some futurist outlines, doing a blind folded one-liner piece, and a throwing up some handstyle alphabets. The purpose of this Russian festival is to expand the originality and unique subtleties in Russian graffiti style. The festival was fully supported by the Russian spray paint company, Rush. [ 3 ] 
Protests [ edit ] 
Since the collapse of the Berlin Wall, statues celebrating communist rule have been easy targets for graffiti artists living in the former Soviet block. An example of this is the Russian Red Army soldiers on a monument in Sofia, Bulgaria, which has been turned into popular superheroes and cartoon characters (including Superman, Santa Claus, Ronald McDonald, and the Joker) by an anonymous graffiti artist. The words "Moving with the times", written in Bulgarian, appear below the artwork. The monument that the artist graffitied was originally built in 1954 to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the Russian liberation of Bulgaria. [ 4 ] 
As a protest to the heightened security in St Petersberg due to the 2011 International Economic Forum, Voina (meaning "War") - a graffiti group - painted a huge phallus on the Liteiny Bridge. The general idea is that the penis erects as the bridge rises to allow traffic to pass through. The annual Innovation awards gave Voina the prize for best work of visual art. The work, entitled "A Penis In KGB Captivity" won Voina 400, 000 rubles. However they had to spend time in jail due to their stunt. [ 5 ] Banksy, a supporter of the groups antics, bailed them out. [ 6 ] After failing to get Voinaas approval to include the picture, organisers removed it from their shortlist, and the painting itself was eventually washed off by firefighters. [ 7 ] 
There have been cases of anti-Muslim xenophobic graffiti in and around the city of Moscow. Slogans like "Russia is for Russians" cover the walls along the railroad to Moscowas Domodedovo airport. In response to some of these incidents, officials questioned why people would be drawn to expressing nationalistic statements in a multinational and multi-confessional country. The mufti, Albir Krganov, who believes that this graffiti insults the feelings of believers and non-Russian nationals, said that "fences and walls belong to someone and [the owners] should watch whatas written on them". In a published document, the Human Rights Bureau referred to the graffiti as a "glaring problem", and explained that "nationalistic slogans and symbols are dangerous since they are insulting and, also, inspire people with fear for their safety as well as for the future of the country". [ 8 ] 
In 2012, a group of Moscow LGBT activists graffitied the United Russia party office by painting "a rainbow... the slogan 'We will not be prohibited', [and] the party label... all over". The group covered the Russian building in LGBT signs and symbols because Vsevolod Chaplin, its head, used homophobic slogans. The protest itself was against new piece of legislation prohibiting gay propaganda, something which was widely discussed in the leadup to the presidential elections in Russia. [ 9 ] 
In 2009, an anonymous graffiti artist painted the words "Your God is dead. Get out and go home!" with a stencil in the churchas building in Rostov-on-don in Russia. As one of the first Churches of Christ to be recognized by the Russian government (registered in 1992), it has been the centre of much controversy in the city. [ 10 ] 
Other cases [ edit ] 
There is a Russian graffiti artist named Pavel 183 (also nicknamed "The Russian Banksy") whose murals have been compared to Banksy's work. Pavel 183's pieces in the Moscow area share similarities with Banksy's in that they appear on median dividers, walls, bridges, and mixed media installations. [ 11 ] Pavel 183 died of unknown causes on April 1, 2013. [ 12 ] 
Vova Chernyshev and his friends created a series of tram graffiti pieces in Nizhny Novgorod in their local train yard. [ 13 ] 
References [ edit ] 
^ "Graffiti In The Dead Town" . Retrieved June 20, 2012 . , ^ "Grammatika Graffiti Event in Russia" . Retrieved June 20, 2012 . , ^ " " Sign Your Style" Graffiti Competition in Russia" . Retrieved June 20, 2012 . , ^ Allen, Emily (June 17, 2011). "Is it a bird? Is it a plane? No, it's Superman and friends... painted on Soviet war statue by the Banksy of Bulgaria". Daily Mail (London) . Retrieved June 20, 2012 . , ^ "Penis graffiti wins art prize in Russia" . Retrieved June 20, 2012 . , ^ "How Banksy bailed out Russian graffiti artist Voina". BBC News . March 5, 2011 . Retrieved June 20, 2012 . , ^ "Penis graffiti on St Petersburg bridge dropped from Russian art competition" . Retrieved June 20, 2012 . , ^ "MUSLIMS OUTRAGED AT XENOPHOBIC GRAFFITI (Russia)" . Retrieved June 20, 2012 . , ^ "LGBT activists graffiti United Russia headquarters" . Retrieved June 20, 2012 . , ^ "Intimidated by graffiti? Russian church says 'Nyet ' " . Retrieved June 20, 2012 . , ^ "P183: Russian graffiti artist draws Banksy comparison" . Retrieved June 20, 2012 . , ^ "Flickering flame: remembering street art pioneer Pasha 183" . Retrieved Jan 6, 2014 . , ^ "Tram Graffiti Russia" . Retrieved June 20, 2012 . , External links [ edit ] 
Post-Soviet Graffiti, Street-art in Russian Federation, Examples of Russian street art at Flickr, Examples of Russian street art at moscowgraffiti, . Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Graffiti_in_Russia and oldid=628048098" Categories: Graffiti in Russia, Public art in Russia, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
, . Edit links This page was last modified on 3 October 2014 at 06:25.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
