
Grand Duchy of Moscow - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Grand Duchy of Moscow 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search "Muscovy" redirects here. For other uses, see Muscovy (disambiguation). 
, This article includes a list of references, related reading or external links, but its sources remain unclear because it lacks inline citations . Please improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (November 2011) , Grand Principality of Moscow, DDDDDDD DDNDDNNDD DDNDDDNDDD
Velikoye Knyazhestvo Moskovskoye , Country, a , 1283a1547 , a 
, Territorial development between 1390 and 1530 , Capital , Languages , Old East Slavic, Religion , Russian Orthodoxy, Government , Absolute monarchy
Tsarist autocracy, Grand Duke , -, 1283a1303, Daniel (first) , -, 1462a1505, Ivan III the Great, -, 1505a1533, Vasili III (last) , History , -, Established, 1283, -, Tsardom proclaimed, 22 October 1547, Currency , Ruble, Preceded by , Succeeded by , Vladimir-Suzdal, Novgorod Republic, Grand Duchy of Tver, Great Perm, Principality of Ryazan, Tsardom of Russia, The Grand Duchy of Moscow (Russian: DDDDDDD DDNDDNNDD DDNDDDNDDD, Velikoye Knyazhestvo Moskovskoye ), or Grand Principality of Moscow (also known in English simply as Muscovy ), was a late medieval Rus' principality centered on Moscow and the predecessor state of the early modern Tsardom of Russia.
The state originated with Daniel I, who inherited Moscow in 1283, eclipsing and eventually absorbing its parent duchy of Vladimir-Suzdal by the 1320s. It later destroyed and annexed the Novgorod Republic in 1478 and the Grand Duchy of Tver in 1485. The Grand Duchy of Moscow expanded through conquest and annexation from just 20, 000 square kilometers in 1300 to 430, 000 in 1462, 2.8 million in 1533, and 5.4 million by 1584. [ 1 ] 
Muscovy remained a tributary to the Golden Horde (under the "Tatar Yoke") until 1480. Ivan III further consolidated the state during his 43-year reign, campaigning against his major remaining rival power, the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, and by 1503 he had tripled the territory of Muscovy, adopting the title of tsar and claiming the title of "Ruler of all Rus'". By his marriage to the niece of the last Byzantine emperor, he established Muscovy as the successor state of the Roman Empire, the "Third Rome".
Ivan's successor Vasili III also enjoyed military success, gaining Smolensk from Lithuania in 1512, pushing Muscovy's borders to the Dniepr River. Vasili's son Ivan IV (later known as Ivan the Terrible ) was an infant at his father's death in 1533. He was crowned in 1547, assuming the title of tsar together with the proclamation of Tsardom of Russia (Russian: DDNNNDD DNNcDDD, Tsarstvo Russkoe ). 
Contents
1 Origin , 2 Dmitri Donskoi , 3 Vasily I and Vasily II , 4 Ivan III , 5 Court , 6 Assessment , 7 See also , 8 References , 9 Sources , 10 Further reading , 11 External links , . 
Origin [ edit ] 
When the Mongols invaded the lands of Kievan Rus', Moscow was an insignificant trading outpost in the principality of Vladimir-Suzdal. Although the Mongols burnt down Moscow in the winter of 1238 and pillaged it in 1293, the outpost's remote, forested location offered some security from Mongol attacks and occupation, and a number of rivers provided access to the Baltic and Black Seas and to the Caucasus region. [ 2 ] 
During the reign of Daniel, Moscow was little more than a small timber fort in the forest of Central Rus'. 
More important to the development of the state of Moscow, however, was its rule by a series of princes who collaborated with the Mongols. The first ruler of the principality of Moscow, Daniel I (d. 1303), was the youngest son of Alexander Nevsky of Vladimir-Suzdal. He started to expand his principality by seizing Kolomna and securing the bequest of Pereslavl-Zalessky to his family. Daniel's son Yuriy (also known as Georgiy) controlled the entire basin of the Moskva River and expanded westward by conquering Mozhaisk. He then forged an alliance with the overlord of the Rus' principalities, Uzbeg Khan of the Golden Horde, and married the khan's sister. He was allowed by the khan to claim the title of Grand Duke of Vladimir-Suzdal, a position which allowed him to interfere in the affairs of the Novgorod Republic to the north-west.
Yuriy's successor, Ivan I (r. 1325a40), managed to retain the title of Grand Duke by cooperating closely with the Mongols and collecting tribute and taxes from other Rus' principalities on their behalf. This relationship enabled Ivan to gain regional ascendancy, particularly over Moscow's chief rival, the northern city of Tver, which rebelled against the Horde in 1327. The uprising was subdued by the joint forces of Mongols and Muscovites. Ivan was reputed to be the richest person in Rus', as his moniker "Kalita" (literally, the "moneybag") testifies. [ 3 ] He used his treasures to purchase land in other principalities and to finance construction of stone churches in the Kremlin. In 1327, the Orthodox Metropolitan Peter transferred his residence from Kiev to Vladimir and then to Moscow, further enhancing the prestige of the new principality.
Dmitri Donskoi [ edit ] 
Dmitry Donskoi in the Battle of Kulikovo 
Ivan's successors continued gathering the lands of Rus' to increase the population and wealth under their rule. In the process, their interests clashed with the expanding Grand Duchy of Lithuania, whose subjects were predominantly East Slavic and Orthodox. Grand Duke Algirdas of Lithuania allied himself by marriage with Tver and undertook three expeditions against Moscow (1368, 1370, 1372) but was unable to take it. The main bone of contention between Moscow and Vilnius was the large city of Smolensk.
In the 1350s, the country and the royal family were hit by the Black Death. Dmitry Ivanovich was aged nine, when his parents died and the title of Grand Duke slipped into the hands of his distant relative, Dmitry of Suzdal. Surrounded by Lithuanians and Muslim nomads, the ruler of Moscow cultivated an alliance with the Rus' Orthodox Church, which experienced a resurgence in influence, due to the monastic reform of St. Sergius of Radonezh.
Educated by Metropolitan Alexis, Dmitri posed as a champion of Orthodoxy and managed to unite the warring principalities of Rus' in his struggle against the Horde. He challenged the Khan's authority and defeated his commander Mamai in the epic Battle of Kulikovo (1380). However, the victory did not bring any short-term benefits; Tokhtamysh in 1382, sacked Moscow hoping to reassert his vested authority over his vassal, the Grand Prince, and his own Mongol hegemony, killing 24, 000 people.
Nevertheless, Dmitri became a national hero. The memory of Kulikovo Field made the Rus' population start believing in their ability to end Tatar domination and become a free people. Dmitri successfully overcame the stigma of collaborating with the Tatars which had been attached to Moscow for decades. In 1389, he passed the throne to his son Vasily I without bothering to obtain the Khan's sanction.
Vasily I and Vasily II [ edit ] 
Part of a series on the History of Russia , Early Slavs/ Rus', pre-9th century , Volga Bulgaria, 7tha13th century , Khazar Khaganate, 7tha10th century , Rus' Khaganate, 9th century , Kievan Rus', 9tha12th century , Vladimir-Suzdal, 12tha14th century , Novgorod Republic, 12tha15th century , Tatar Yoke, 13tha15th century , Grand Duchy , 1283a1547, Tsardom of Russia, 1547a1721, Russian Empire, 1721a1917, Russian Republic, 1917, Russian SFSR/ Soviet Union, 1917a1991, Russian Federation, 1992a present , Timeline , Russia portal, v , t , e , . , Vasily I (r. 1389a1425) continued the policies of his father. After the Horde was attacked by Tamerlane, he desisted from paying tribute to the Khan, but was forced to pursue a more conciliatory policy after Edigu's incursion on Moscow in 1408. Married to the only daughter of the Grand Duke Vytautas of Lithuania, he attempted to avoid open conflicts with his powerful father-in-law, even when the latter annexed Smolensk. The peaceful years of his long reign were marked by the continuing expansion to the east (annexation of Nizhny Novgorod and Suzdal, 1392) and to the north (annexation of Vologda, Veliky Ustyug, and Perm of Vychegda, 1398). Nizhny Novgorod was given by the Khan as a reward for Muscovite help against a rival. [ 1 ] 
Andrei Rublev's famous icon of the Trinity. 
The reforms of St. Sergius triggered a cultural revival, exemplified by the icons and frescoes of the monk Andrei Rublev. Hundreds of monasteries were founded by St. Sergius's disciples in distant and inhospitable locations, including Beloozero and Solovki. Apart from their cultural function, these monasteries were major landowners. They could control the economy of an adjacent region. In fact they served as outposts of Moscow influence in the neighboring principalities and republics. Another factor responsible for the expansion of the Grand Duchy of Moscow was its favorable dynastic situation, when each sovereign was succeeded by his son, while rival principalities were plagued by dynastic strife and splintered into ever smaller polities. The only lateral branch of the House of Moscow, represented by Vladimir of Serpukhov and his descendants, was firmly anchored to the Moscow Duchy.
The situation changed with the ascension of Vasily I's successor, Vasily II (r. 1425a62). Before long his uncle, Yuri of Zvenigorod, started to advance his claims to the throne and Monomakh's Cap. A bitter family conflict erupted and rocked the country during the whole reign. After Yuri's death in 1432, the claims were taken up by his sons, Vasily Kosoy and Dmitry Shemyaka, who pursued the Great Feudal War well into the 1450s. Although he was ousted from Moscow on several occasions, taken prisoner by Olug Moxammat of Kazan, and blinded in 1446, Vasily II eventually managed to triumph over his enemies and pass the throne to his son. At his urging, a native bishop was elected as Metropolitan of Moscow, which was tantamount to declaration of independence of the Russian Orthodox Church from the Patriarch of Constantinople (1448).
Ivan III [ edit ] 
Outward expansion of the Grand Duchy in the 14th and 15th centuries was accompanied by internal consolidation. By the 15th century, the rulers of Moscow considered the entire Rus' territory their collective property. Various semi-independent princes of Rurikid stock still claimed specific territories, but Ivan III (the Great; r. 1462a1505) forced the lesser princes to acknowledge the grand prince of Moscow and his descendants as unquestioned rulers with control over military, judicial, and foreign affairs.
Great standing on the Ugra river, 1480 
Part of a series on the History of Udmurtia , Volga Bulgaria, Mongol invasion, Golden Horde, Khanate of Kazan, Ar begs, Muscovy , Kazan Governorate, Udmurt Autonomous Oblast, Udmurt ASSR, Udmurt Republic, . , v , t , e , . , Part of a series on the History of Tatarstan , Great Bulgaria, Khazars, Volga Bulgaria, Kipchaks, Mongol invasion, Golden Horde, Khanate of Kazan, Muscovy , Kazan Governorate, Idel-Ural State, Tatar ASSR, Republic of Tatarstan, . , v , t , e , . , Moscow gained full sovereignty over a significant part of the ethnically Rus' lands by 1480, when the Tatars' Golden Horde overlordship ended officially after the Great standing on the Ugra river , and by the beginning of the 16th century virtually all those lands were united, including the Novgorod Republic (annexation of 1478) and the Grand Duchy of Tver (annexation of 1485). Through inheritance, Ivan was able to control the important Principality of Ryazan, and the princes of Rostov and Yaroslavl' subordinated themselves to him. The northwestern city of Pskov consisting of city and few lands surrounding it remained independent in this period, but Ivan's son, Vasili III (r. 1505a33), later conquered it.
Having consolidated the core of Russia under his rule, Ivan III became the first Moscow ruler to adopt the titles of tsar and "Ruler of all Rus'" . [ 2 ] Ivan competed with his powerful northwestern rival Lithuania for control over some of the semi-independent former principalities of Kievan Rus' in the upper Dnieper and Donets river basins. Through the defections of some princes, border skirmishes, and a long, inconclusive war with Lithuania that ended only in 1503, Ivan III was able to push westward, and Moscow state tripled in size under his rule.
The reign of the Tsars started officially with Ivan the Terrible, the first monarch to be crowned Tsar of Russia, but in practice it started with Ivan III, who completed the centralization of the state (traditionally known as the gathering of the Russian lands ) at the same time as Louis XI did the same in France.
Court [ edit ] 
The court of the Moscow princes combined ceremonies and customs inherited from Kievan Rus with those imported from the Byzantine Empire and Golden Horde. Some traditional Russian offices, like that of tysyatsky and veche, were gradually abolished in order to consolidate power in the hands of the ruling prince. A new elaborate system of court precedence, or mestnichestvo , predicated the nobleman's rank and function on the rank and function of his ancestors and other members of his family. The highest echelon of hereditary nobles was composed of boyars. They fell into three categories:
Rurikid princes of Upper Oka towns, Suzdal, Rostov, Yaroslavl, etc. that lived in Moscow after their hereditary principalities had been incorporated into Duchy of Moscow (e.g., Shuisky, Vorotynsky, Repnin, Romodanovsky);, Foreign princes from Lithuania and Golden Horde, claiming descent either from Grand Duke Gediminas or from Genghis Khan (e.g., Belsky, Mstislavsky, Galitzine, Trubetskoy);, Ancient families of Moscow nobility that have been recorded in the service of Grand Dukes from the 14th century (e.g., Romanov, Godunov, Sheremetev)., . 
Rurikid and Gediminid boyars, whose fathers and grandfathers were independent princelings, felt that they were kin to the grand prince and hence almost equal to him. During the times of dynastic troubles (such as the years of Ivan IV's minority), boyardom constituted an internal force which was a permanent threat to the throne. An early form of the monarch's conflict with boyarstvo was the oprichnina policy of Ivan the Terrible.
The Dormition Cathedral in the Moscow Kremlin 
During such conflicts, Ivan, Boris Godunov, and some later monarchs felt the necessity to counterbalance the boyardom by creating a new kind of nobility, based on personal devotion to tsar and merits earned by faithful service, rather than by heredity. Later these new nobles were called dvoryans (singular: dvoryanin). The name comes from the Russian word dvor in the meaning of tsar's dvor , i.e., The Court. Hence the expression pozhalovat ko dvoru , i.e., to be called to (serve) The Court.
Assessment [ edit ] 
The development of the modern day Russian state is traced from Kievan Rus' through Vladimir-Suzdal and Moscow Duchy to Tsardom of Russia, and then, the Russian Empire. The Moscow Duchy drew people and wealth to the northeastern part of Kievan Rus'; established trade links to the Baltic Sea, the White Sea, and the Caspian Sea and to Siberia; and created a highly centralized and autocratic political system. The political traditions established in Muscovy, therefore, exerted a powerful influence on the future development of Russian society.
See also [ edit ] 
, Moscow portal, Russia portal, List of Russian rulers, Tsardom of Russia, Muscovite Manorialism, MuscoviteaLithuanian Wars, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ a b Richard Pipes, Russia under the Old Regime (1995), p.80. , ^ a b Library of Congress Country Studies -Russia , ^ Moss (2005) , Sources [ edit ] 
Moss, Walter G (2005). "History of Russia - Volume 1: To 1917", Anthem Press, p. 80, . 
Further reading [ edit ] 
Chester Dunning, The Russian Empire and the Grand Duchy of Muscovy: A Seventeenth Century French Account , Romaniello, Matthew (September 2006). "Ethnicity as social rank: Governance, law, and empire in Muscovite Russia". Nationalities Papers 34 (4): 447a469. doi:10.1080/00905990600842049. , Marshall Poe, Foreign Descriptions of Muscovy: An Analytic Bibliography of Primary and Secondary Sources , Slavica Publishers, 1995, ISBN 0-89357-262-4, This article incorporatespublic domain material from websites or documents of the Library of Congress Country Studies. - Russia, . 
External links [ edit ] 
Media related to Muscovy at Wikimedia Commons, . 
v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow , Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Grand_Duchy_of_Moscow and oldid=629203232" Categories: Former countries in Europe, States and territories established in 1283, States and territories disestablished in 1547, 1547 disestablishments, States and territories established in 1263, Moscow Oblast, Medieval Russia, History of Moscow, Former Slavic countries, Former monarchies of Europe, 13th century in Russia, 14th century in Russia, 15th century in Russia, 16th century in Russia, 13th century in Moscow, 14th century in Moscow, 15th century in Moscow, 16th century in Moscow, . Hidden categories: Articles lacking in-text citations from November 2011, All articles lacking in-text citations, Former country articles requiring maintenance, Articles containing Russian-language text, Wikipedia articles incorporating text from the Library of Congress Country Studies, Unclassified articles missing geocoordinate data, All articles needing coordinates, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
Afrikaans, OUOOOUO, AzErbaycanca, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, DNDDDNNDD, CatalA, DODDNDD, AeAtina, Dansk, Deutsch, Eesti, IIIIIIII, EspaAol, Esperanto, Euskara, UOOOU, FranAais, Galego, iei, OOOOOOO, Hrvatski, Ido, Bahasa Indonesia, Interlingua, Italiano, aaaaaaa, Latina, LatvieAu, LietuviA, Magyar, DDDDDDDNDD, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, UUOOOU, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, SlovenAina, SlovenAAina, DNDNDD / srpski, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Suomi, Svenska, DDNDNND/tatarAa, aaa, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 11 October 2014 at 18:21.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
