
Politics of Greece - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of Greece 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Greece , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Greece , Constitution Constitutional history, Taxation, . , Executive President (list) Karolos Papoulias , Presidential Departments, Prime Minister (list) Antonis Samaras , Cabinet (list) , . , Legislature Parliament Speaker: Vangelis Meimarakis Presidium Conference of Presidents Parliamentary committees , . , Judiciary Judicial system Supreme Special Court Court of Cassation Council of State Chamber of Accounts , . , Administrative divisions Regions, Regional units, Municipalities, . , Elections Political parties, Parliamentary constituencies, Recent elections 2012 (June) (legislative) 2012 (May) (legislative) 2010 (local) 2009 (European) , . , Foreign relations Minister for Foreign Affairs, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The politics of Greece takes place in a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Prime Minister of Greece is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the Hellenic Parliament. Between the restoration of democracy in 1974 and the Greek government-debt crisis the party system was dominated by the liberal-conservative New Democracy (III IIIIIIIIII a Nea Dimokratia ) and the social-democratic Panhellenic Socialist Movement (IIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIII IIIIII a Panellinio Sosialistiko Kinima , IIIII/PASOK).
The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
The Constitution of Greece, which describes Greece as a "presidential parliamentary republic", includes extensive specific guarantees of civil liberties and vests the powers of the head of state in a president elected by parliament. The Greek governmental structure is similar to that found in many other Western democracies, and has been described as a compromise between the French and German models. The prime minister and cabinet play the central role in the political process, while the president performs some executive and legislative functions in addition to ceremonial duties. Voting in Greece is compulsory but is not enforced. [ citation needed ] 
Greek politics is often described as dynastic, with long-established political families controlling the positions of power. This is certainly true for the Prime Ministers, but there are many Ministers and Members of Parliament with no relation to political families.
Contents
1 Executive branch , 2 Legislative branch , 3 Judicial branch , 4 Administrative divisions , 5 International organization participation , 6 Notable politicians of Greece 6.1 Former , 6.2 Current , . , 7 Political issues 7.1 Education , 7.2 Illegal immigration , 7.3 Religion , 7.4 Media , 7.5 Military service 7.5.1 Military spending , . , . , 8 Notes , 9 External links , . 
Executive branch [ edit ] 
Main office holders Office Name Party Since President, Karolos Papoulias, Panhellenic Socialist Movement, 12 March 2005, Prime Minister, Antonis Samaras, New Democracy, 20 June 2012, Crown Prince's palace in 1909, today the Presidential Mansion Maximos Mansion, the official seat of the Prime Minister of Greece 
The Cabinet of Greece includes the heads of all executive ministries, appointed by the president on the recommendation of the prime minister.
The old building of the Greek parliament, now National Historical Museum. 
The President of the Republic is elected by the Parliament for a five-year term (election last held 3 February 2010), and a maximum of two terms in office. When a presidential term expires, Parliament votes to elect the new President. In the first two votes, a a majority (200 votes) is necessary. The third and final vote requires a 3/5 (180 votes) majority. If the third vote is fruitless, Parliament is dissolved and elections are proclaimed by the outgoing President within the next 30 days. In the new Parliament, the election for President is repeated immediately with a 3/5 majority required for the initial vote, an absolute majority for the second one (151 votes) and a simple majority for the third and final one. The system is so designed as to promote consensus Presidential candidates among the main political parties.
The president has the power to declare war, to grant pardon and to conclude agreements of peace, alliance, and participation in international organizations; upon the request of the government a simple parliamentary majority is required to ratify such actions, agreements, or treaties. An absolute or a three-fifths majority is required in exceptional cases (for example, the accession into the EU needed a 3/5 majority). The president can also exercise certain emergency powers, which must be countersigned by the appropriate cabinet minister. The president may not dissolve parliament, dismiss the government, suspend certain articles of the constitution, issue a proclamation or declare a state of siege without countersigning by the prime minister or the appropriate cabinet minister. To call a referendum, he must obtain approval from parliament.
The prime minister is elected by the people and he or she is usually the leader of the party controlling the absolute majority of Parliament members. According to the Constitution, the prime minister safeguards the unity of the government and directs its activities. He or she is the most powerful person of the Greek political system and recommends ministers to the President for appointment or dismissal.
Greek parliamentary politics hinge upon the principle of the " IIIIIIIIII " (pronounced "dhedhilom e ni"), the "declared confidence" of Parliament to the Prime Minister and his/her administration. This means that the President of the Republic is bound to appoint as Prime Minister a person who will be approved by a majority of the Parliament's members (i.e. 151 votes). With the current electoral system, it is the leader of the party gaining a plurality of the votes in the Parliamentary elections who gets appointed Prime Minister. An administration may, at any time, seek a "vote of confidence"; conversely, a number of Members of Parliament may ask that a "vote of reproach" be taken. Both are rare occurrences with usually predictable outcomes as voting outside the party line happens very seldom.
On 4 October 2009, George Papandreou, president of the Panhellenic Socialist Movement party and son and grandson of Prime Ministers, was elected as the new Prime Minister of Greece, following five years of government under New Democracy leader Kostas Karamanlis, the nephew of long-time Prime Minister and President Konstantinos Karamanlis.
Legislative branch [ edit ] 
The current Greek Parliament, Old Royal Palace. 
Greece elects a legislature by universal suffrage of all citizens over the age of 18. The Greek Parliament (IIIII III IIIIIII) has 300 members, elected for a four-year term by a system of reinforced proportional representation in 48 multi-seat constituencies, 8 single-seat constituencies and a single nationwide list. 288 of the 300 seats are determined by constituency voting, and voters may select the candidate or candidates of their choice by marking their name on the party ballot. The remaining 12 seats are filled from nationwide party lists on a top-down basis and based on the proportion of the total vote each party received.
Greece uses a complex reinforced proportional representation electoral system which discourages splinter parties and makes a parliamentary majority possible even if the leading party falls short of a majority of the popular vote. Under the current electoral law, any single party must receive at least a 3ationwide vote tally in order to elect Members of Parliament (the so-called "3hreshold"). The law in its current form favors the first past the post party to achieve an absolute (151 parliamentary seats) majority, provided it receives a 41nationwide vote. This is touted to enhance governmental stability. The electoral law can be changed by simple parliamentary majority, but a law so changed only becomes enforced in the election following the upcoming one, unless it is voted by the Greek Parliament with a majority of a of the total number of the deputies.
Judicial branch [ edit ] 
Main article: Judicial system of Greece The building of the Arsakeion in Athens, where the Council of State is seated 
In Greece the judicial branch is divided into civil, and administrative courts. Civil courts judge civil and penal cases, whereas administrative courts judge administrative cases, namely disputes between the citizens and the State.
The judicial system of Greece comprises three Supreme Courts: the [[Court of Cassation (Greece) ]] (IIIIII IIIII), the Council of State (IIIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIIII) and the Chamber of Accounts (IIIIIIIII IIIIIIII). These high courts are composed of professional judges, graduates of the National School of Judges. The way the judges are gradually promoted, until they become members of the Supreme Courts, is defined by the Constitution and the existing laws. The presidents and the vice-presidents of the three Supreme Courts are chosen by the Cabinet of Greece among the serving members of each of the Supreme Courts.
The Court of Cassation is the supreme civil and penal court, whereas the Council of State is the supreme administrative court. The Chamber of Accounts has an exclusive jurisdiction over certain administrative areas (for example it judges disputes arising from the legislation regulating the pensions of civil servants) and its decisions are irrevocable. This means that they are not judged at second instance by the Council of State.
Sometimes, the Supreme Courts take contradictory decisions or they judge differently the constitutionality of a legal provision. These disputes are resolved by the Supreme Special Court, whose composition and jurisdiction is regulated by the Constitution (article 100). As its name reveals, this court is not permanent and it sits when a special case belonging to its jurisdiction arises. When the Supreme Special Court sits, it comprises eleven members: the Presidents of the three Supreme Courts, four members of the Court of Cassation and four members of the Council of State. When it judges the constitutionality of a law or resolves the disputes between Supreme Courts, its composition comprises two more members: two professors of the Law Schools of Greece. The Supreme Special Court is the only court which can declare an unconstitutional legal provision as "powerless" (something like "null and void"), while the three Supreme Courts can only declare an unconstitutional legal provision as "inapplicable" to that particular case. The Supreme Special Court is also the Supreme Electoral Court, judging pleas against the legality of the legislative elections.
Administrative divisions [ edit ] 
, This article's factual accuracy may be compromised due to out-of-date information . Please update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. (October 2012) , Greece is divided in 13 regions, further divided into 74 regional units. The prefectures are each headed by a prefect (the " Nomarch "), who is elected by direct popular vote. The thirteen regional administrative districts (peripheries), each including a number of prefectures are headed by a regional governor (the " Peripheriarch "), appointed by the Minister of the Interior. In northern Greece and in greater Athens, three areas have an additional administrative position between the nomarch and peripheriarch. This official, known as the Chair of the prefectural local authorities or "superprefect" (the " Hypernomarch "), is elected by direct popular vote together with the nomarchs she or he supervises. Although municipalities and villages have elected officials, they do not have an adequate independent revenue base and must depend on the central government budget for a large part of their financial needs. Consequently they are subject to numerous central government controls. This also leads to extremely low municipal taxes (usually around 0.2r less).
Greece also includes one autonomous region, the Monastic Community of the Holy Mountain, Mount Athos.
International organization participation [ edit ] 
Greece is member of the Australia Group, BIS, BSEC, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EIB, EU, FAO, G- 6, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURSO, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, SECI, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMIBH, UNOMIG, UPU, WCO, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, Zangger Committee
Notable politicians of Greece [ edit ] 
Former [ edit ] 
Alexandros Mavrokordatos, Ioannis Kapodistrias, Spyridon Trikoupis, Andreas Metaxas, Dimitrios Kallergis, Alexandros Koumoundouros, Epameinondas Deligiorgis, Charilaos Trikoupis, Theodoros Deligiannis, Alexandros Rizos Rangavis, Alexandros Zaimis, Georgios Christakis-Zografos, Georgios Theotokis, Ioannis Sfakianakis, Stephanos Dragoumis, Ion Dragoumis, Eleftherios Venizelos, Dimitrios Gounaris, . , Ioannis Metaxas, Alexandros Papanastasiou, Themistoklis Sofoulis, Nikos Zachariadis, Sofoklis Venizelos, Georgios Papandreou, Grigoris Lambrakis, Ilias Iliou, Alexandros Panagoulis, Panagiotis Kanellopoulos, Spyros Markezinis, Konstantinos Karamanlis, Evangelos Averoff, Leonidas Kyrkos, Andreas Papandreou, Georgios Rallis, Konstantinos Mitsotakis, . , Current [ edit ] 
Dimitris Avramopoulos, Dora Bakoyannis, Michalis Chrisochoidis, Maria Damanaki, Anna Diamantopoulou, Stavros Dimas, Adonis Georgiades, Pavlos Geroulanos, Kostis Hatzidakis, Georgios Karatzaferis, Nikos Konstantopoulos, Dimitris Koutsoumpas, Fotis Kouvelis, . , Andreas Loverdos, Stefanos Manos, Nikolaos Michaloliakos, Petros Molyviatis, George Papandreou, Shaun Ferguson, Theodoros Pangalos, Karolos Papoulias, Antonis Samaras, Costas Simitis, Alexis Tsipras, Evangelos Venizelos, . , Political issues [ edit ] 
Education [ edit ] 
Main article: Education in Greece A working class political protest in Athens, Greece calling for the boycott of a local bookshop after, allegedly, an employee was fired for her political activism 
Under the Greek constitution, [ 1 ] education is the responsibility of the state. Most Greeks attend public primary and secondary schools. There are a few private schools, which must meet the standard curriculum of and are supervised by the Ministry of Education. The Ministry of Education oversees and directs every aspect of the public education process at all levels, including hiring all teachers and professors and producing all required textbooks.
A recent issue concerning education in Greece is the institutionalisation of private universities. According to the constitution [ 2 ] only state-run universities operate on the land. However, in the recent years many foreign private universities have established branches in Greece, offering Bachelor's level degrees, thus creating a legal contradiction between the Greek constitution and the EU laws allowing foreign companies to operate anywhere in the Union. Additionally, every year, tens of thousands of Greek students are not accepted to the state-run University system and become "educational immigrants" to other countries' Higher Education institutions, where they move to study. This has created a chronic problem for Greece, in terms of loss of capital as well as human resources, since many of those students opt to seek employment in the countries they studied, after completing their studies. It is characteristic that in 2006, Greece, with 11.5million inhabitants, was fourth in the world in terms of student export in absolute numbers, with 60, 000 students abroad, while the first country in this regard, People's Republic of China of over 1, 3billion inhabitants, had 100, 000 students abroad. In terms of students abroad as a percent of the general population, Greece is by far the leading country, with 5, 250 students per million, compared to second Malaysia's 1, 780 students per million inhabitants.
Citing these problems as a result of the state's monopoly on Higher Education, New Democracy (ND) committed to amending the constitution, in order to allow private universities to operate in Greece on a non-profit basis. This proposal was rejected by then-ruling Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK) in the late nineties, and thus could not muster the support necessary to be put to vote on the constitutional amendment of 2001. However, PASOK has since changed its stance, and now also supports a constitutional provision for the creation of private Universities on a non-profit basis. This proposal continues to encounter the fierce opposition of the Left parties and part of the academic community, both professors and students.
At the outset of 2006, prime minister Kostas Karamanlis announced the initiative of his government for a new amendment of the Constitution. According to his assertion one of the main issues of this amendment (the second within less than 10 years) is going to be the creation of "non-state owned" universities.
Illegal immigration [ edit ] 
Main article: Immigration to Greece 
Greece has had problems with illegal immigration, many of whom transit through Turkey. Greek authorities believe that 90f illegal immigrants in the EU enter through Greece, many fleeing because of unrest and poverty in the Middle East and Africa. [ 3 ] [ 4 ] 
Several European Courts have decreed that Greece is not obeying the minimum standards of treatment for asylum seekers. The consequences is that, illegal migrants who reach other countries cannot be sent back to Greece. [ 5 ] 
Numerous solutions have been proposed by the Greek government such as building a fence on the Turkish border and setting up detention camps. [ 6 ] [ 7 ] 
Religion [ edit ] 
Main article: Religion in Greece 
The Greek Orthodox Church is under the protection of the State, which pays the clergy's salaries, and Orthodox Christianity is the "'prevailing" religion of Greece according to the Constitution. The Greek Orthodox Church is self-governing but under the spiritual guidance of the Ecumenical Patriarch in Constantinople. Freedom of religious beliefs is guaranteed by the Constitution, but "proselytism" is officially illegal. According to the most recent Eurostat "Eurobarometer" poll, in 2005, [ 8 ] 81f Greek citizens responded that "they believe there is a God", whereas 16nswered that "they believe there is some sort of spirit or life force" and only 3hat "they do not believe there is a God, spirit, nor life force". This would make Greece one of the most religious countries in the European Union of 25 members, after Malta and Cyprus.
The Muslim minority, concentrated in Thrace, was given legal status by provisions of the Treaty of Lausanne in 1923 and is Greece's only officially recognized religious minority. There are small Roman Catholic communities on some of the Cyclades and the Ionian Islands, remnants of the long Venetian rule over the islands. The recent influx of (mostly illegal) immigrants from Eastern Europe and the Third World has an expectedly varied multi-religious profile (Roman Catholic, Muslim, Hindu etc.).
During the 2001 constitutional amendment, complete separation of church and state was proposed, but the two major parties, ND and PASOK, decided not to open this controversial matter, which clashes with both the population and the clergy. For example, numerous protests occurred over the removal of the Religious Denomination entry from the National ID card in 2000.
Media [ edit ] 
The Greek media, collectively, is a very influential institution a usually aggressive, sensationalist. As with many countries, most of the media are owned by businesses with commercial interests in other sectors of the economy. There are often accusations of newspapers, magazines, and radio and television channels being used to promote their commercial enterprises as well as to seek political influence.
In 1994, the Ministry of Press and Media was established to deal with media and communication issues. ERT S.A., a public corporation supervised by the Minister of Press, operates three national television channels and five national radio channels. The Minister of Press also serves as the primary government spokesperson.
The Secretary General of Press and Information prepares the semi-official Athens News Agency (ANA) Bulletin. Along with AP and Reuters, this is a primary source of information for the Greek press. The Ministry of Press and Information also issues the semi-official Macedonian News Agency (MPE) Bulletin, which is distributed throughout the Balkan region. For international news, CNN is a particular influence in the Greek market; the major television channels often use it as a source. State and private television stations also use Eurovision and Visnews as sources. While few papers and stations have overseas correspondents, those few correspondents abroad can be very influential.
In 1988, a new law provided the legal framework for the establishment of private radio stations and, in 1989, private television stations. According to the law, supervision of radio and television is exercised by the National Radio and Television Council. In practice, however, official licensing has been delayed for many years. Because of this, there has been a proliferation of private radio and television stations, as well as European satellite channels, including Euronews. More than 1, 000 radio stations were operating before March 2002, when the government implemented plans to reallocate television frequencies and issue licenses as authorized by the 1993 Media Law, effectively reducing this number.
In 2011, the government proposed new measures that will restrict the freedom of speech in the internet. According to some proposals, every individual who would like to use free platforms, such like Blogspot or WordPress will be forced to get officially registered in the courts, as due to tough austerity measures web sites that criticize the government and the political system in general have been multiplied. [ 9 ] 
Military service [ edit ] 
Main article: Conscription in Greece 
Nine months for all males of 18 years of age; Compulsory with fines and imprisonment if denied, but neither fine nor imprisonment has been imposed since 1994, where the last warrant against a draft-dodger was issued. Members of families with three children serve a reduced time of six months. Military service can also be substituted with a longer public service, which by the standards of Amnesty International, ought to be considered punitive as it is twice as long as the regular tour of duty. Limited steps have been taken to turn the Greek military into a semi-professional army in the last years, leading to the gradual reduction of the service from 18 to 12 to 9 months and the inclusion of a greater number of professional military personnel in most vertices of the force. Recent developments, though, within the anti-conscription movement in Greece, such as the high [ citation needed ] death rate from suicides during service and work-related accidents, such as the Manitsa incident, combined with a high rate of draft-dodging, have advanced the idea that mandatory conscription should be abolished and an all-professional/all-volunteer army should be put in place. [ citation needed ] 
Military spending [ edit ] 
Greece directs approximately 4.3f its GDP to military expenditures, the 2nd highest percentage in Europe. [ 10 ] In absolute numbers the Greek military budget ranked 28th in the world in 2005. By the same measure, Greek military budget ranked 6th in the Mediterranean basin (behind France, Italy, Turkey, Israel and Spain) and 2nd (behind Turkey) in its immediate vicinity, the Balkans. [ 11 ] Greek arms purchasing is among the highest in the world: Greece ranked 3rd in the world in 2004. [ 12 ] 
These figures are explained [ 13 ] in the light of the arms race between Greece and Turkey with key issues being the Cyprus dispute and disagreement over sovereignty of certain islets of the Aegean. For more information see Greco-Turkish relations. Reversely, the foreign relations of Greece as well as many internal policy decisions are largely affected by its arms purchases. The United States, being the major arms seller to Greece has been known to actively intervene in military spending decisions made by the Greek government. [ 14 ] The US has at times actively stepped in to help avoid large scale crisis, as in the case of the Imia-Kardak crisis.
The reduction of military spending has long been an issue in Greek politics. The former prime minister, Kostas Karamanlis had proposed a reduction to military spending through a "Defence Eurozone", [ 15 ] referring to the European Security and Defence Policy. The previous PASOK administration, also planned on reducing military spending [ 16 ] prior to its failure to be re-elected in 2004, while PASOK politicians usually refer to money saved from reducing military spending as a "peace dividend" ("IIIIIII IIIIIII"). [ 17 ] The parties of the Left, the Communist Party of Greece and Synaspismos, have been vocal in condemning military spending. Regarding the purchase of 30 F-16 and 333 Leopard tanks in 2005, both parties criticized the New Democracy administration for spending money on weapons while doing nothing to relieve the lower classes and said that high military spending "does not correspond to the real needs of the country but is carried out according to NATO planning and to serve weapon manufacturers and the countries that host them". [ 18 ] 
Notes [ edit ] 
, Constructs such as ibid. , loc. cit. and idem are discouraged by Wikipedia's style guide for footnotes , as they are easily broken. Please improve this article by replacing them with named references ( quick guide ), or an abbreviated title. (May 2010) , ^ Article 16 of the Constitution of Greece. , ^ ibid, Section 5: "Education at university level shall be provided exclusively by institutions which are fully self-governed public law legal persons". , ^ "Tensions Rise Over Illegal Immigrants In Greece". NPR . Retrieved 2012-04-01 . , ^ "Southern Europe's Immigration Test". Time . 2010-02-18 . Retrieved 2012-05-30 . , ^ "On illegal immigration, Greek left, war damages, Klaus Boetig, traffic accidents". Ekathimerini . Retrieved 2012-04-01 . , ^ "Greece to Build Border Fence to Deter Illegal Immigrants". The New York Times . 2012-02-06 . Retrieved 2012-04-01 . , ^ Smith, Helena (2012-03-29). "Greece to open new detention centres for illegal migrants". The Guardian (London) . Retrieved 2012-04-01 . , ^ Eurobarometer, http://ec.europa.eu/public_opinion/archives/ebs/ebs_225_report_en.pdf , ^ [1] , ^ Military Spending a Rank Order, Military expenditure (2005 figures) , ^ All rankings according to the World ranking of military budgets , ^ Article from in.gr (08/06/05) (in Greek) , ^ US Arms Clients Profiles a Greece , ^ ibid: The Greek publication Elevtherotipia reported that former Ambassador Nicholas Burns had taken part in attempting to dissuade Greek officials from purchasing the Eurofighter in favor of a U.S. military aircraft. , ^ Hellenic Radio (ERA): News in Greek, 03-09-13 , ^ Athens News Agency: Press Review in Greek, 01-11-15 , ^ Speech of PASOK former finance minister Nikos Christodoulakis , ^ HR-NET index of BBC broadcasts in Greek, 05-07-19 News , External links [ edit ] 
Greek Politics Specialist Group (GPSG) of the UK's Political Studies Association, Official election results, via the Greek Ministry of Internal Affairs, ekloges.gr Greek Elections, Official website of the Prime Minister of Greece, Greece the first country in the globe in terms of student export, Greek Politics Community Forums, Greece and eurozone in crisis dossier by Radio France Internationale in English June 2010, . 
v , t , e , . Greecetopics , History 
Chronology Aegean civilizations, Minoan civilization, Mycenaean period, Greek Dark Ages, Archaic period, Classical period, Hellenistic period, Roman era, Byzantine era, Latin states, Ottoman era, War of Independence, Modern Greece, . , By topic Constitutional, Economic, Military, Greek countries and regions, Hellenic languages, Megali Idea, . , Geography 
Cities, Climate, Earthquakes, Environmental issues, Islands, Lakes, Mountains, National Parks, Regions, Rivers, Volcanoes, . , Politics 
Administrative divisions, Constitution, Elections, Foreign relations, Human rights LGBT, . , Judicial system, Law enforcement, Military, Political parties, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Banking, Central bank, Debt crisis, Energy, Greek economic miracle, Ports, Shipping, Stock exchange, Taxation, Telecommunications, Tourism, Trade unions, Transportation, . , Society 
Crime, Demographics, Diaspora, Education, Healthcare, Immigration, Language, Minorities, Religion, . , Culture Anthem, Architecture, Art, Cinema, Coat of arms, Cuisine (wine), Dances, Dress, Flag and national colours, Literature, Music, Mythology, Philhellenism, Public holidays, Name of Greece, Names of the Greeks, Newspapers, Sport, Television, Women, World Heritage Sites, . , Outline, Index, Bibliography, . Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Politics of Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece , Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , v , t , e , . North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) , History North Atlantic Treaty, Summit, Operations, Enlargement, . , Structure North Atlantic Council (NAC) Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe (SHAPE), Allied Command Transformation (ACT), . , . , People Secretary General, Chairman of the NATO Military Committee (CMC), Supreme Allied Commander Europe (SACEUR), Supreme Allied Commander Transformation (SACT), . , Members Albania, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom, United States, . , v , t , e , . Parliament of Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , Wikimedia Commons has media related to Politics of Greece ., Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_Greece and oldid=628465101" Categories: Politics of Greece, . Hidden categories: All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from May 2010, Articles containing Greek-language text, Articles with obsolete information from October 2012, All Wikipedia articles in need of updating, Articles with unsourced statements from June 2007, Articles with ibid from May 2010, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, Use dmy dates from June 2011, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, DNDDDNNDD, AeAtina, IIIIIIII, EspaAol, FranAais, Galego, iei, Italiano, aaaaaaa, Polski, PortuguAs, DNNNDDD, Svenska, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 6 October 2014 at 11:57.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
