
Governorate (Russia) - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Governorate (Russia) 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia AA(Redirected from Guberniya) Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article relies largely or entirely upon a single source . Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please help improve this article by introducing citations to additional sources. (October 2012) , See also: List of governorates of the Russian Empire 
Governorates of the Russian Empire 
Russian Empire in 1914, Category Subdivision of an empire, Location Russian Empire, Createdby "On the establishment of the gubernias and cities assigned to them", Created December 18, 1708, Abolished 1917 (inherited by the Soviet regime), Number 117 (8 initially) (as of 1914), Subdivisions provinces, later uyezds (counties), Division of Russia into eight guberniyas in 1708 
A governorate , or a guberniya (Russian: DNDDINDDN ; IPA: [EEEbEernEEjE] ; also romanized gubernia , guberniia , gubernya ), was a major and principal administrative subdivision of the Russian Empire and the early Russian SFSR. The term is usually translated as government , governorate , or province . A governorate was ruled by a governor ( DNDDNDDNDN , gubernator ), a word borrowed from Latin gubernator , in turn from Greek kybernetes . Sometimes the term guberniya was informally used to refer to the office of a governor.
Selected governorates were united under an assigned Governor General such as Grand Duchy of Finland, Tsardom of Poland, Russian Turkestan and others. There also were military governors such as Kronshtadt, Vladivostok, and others. Aside of governorates, other types of divisions were oblasts (region) and okrug (district).
Contents
1 First reform , 2 Second reform , 3 Namestnichestvo (Vice royalty) , 4 Guberniya in Poland and Finland , 5 Post revolutionary changes , 6 See also , 7 References , 8 External links , . 
First reform [ edit ] 
This subdivision type was created by the edict (ukase) of Peter the Great on December 18, 1708 "On the establishment of the gubernias and cities assigned to them", which divided Russia into eight guberniyas.
Second reform [ edit ] 
In 1719, guberniyas were further subdivided into provinces ( DNDDDDNDD , provintsii ). Later the number of guberniyas was increased to 23.
Namestnichestvo (Vice royalty) [ edit ] 
By the reform of 1775, subdivision into guberniyas and further into uyezds ( NDDDN ), was based on population size, and the term guberniya was replaced by the synonym of Russian origin: namestnichestvo ( DDDDNNDDNDNNDD ), sometimes translated as "viceroyalty". The term guberniya , however, still remained in use. These viceroyalties were governed by namestniki ( DDDDNNDDD ) (literal translation: "deputy") or "Governors General" ( DDDDNDD-DNDDNDDNDN , general-gubernator ). Correspondingly, the term "Governorate General" ( DDDDNDD-DNDDNDDNDNNNDD , general-gubernatorstvo ) was in use to refer to the actual territory being governed. The office of Governor General had more administrative power and was in a higher position than the previous office of Governor. Sometimes a Governor General ruled several guberniyas.
By the ukase of the Russian Senate of December 31, 1796, the office of Governorate General was demoted to the previous level of Governorate, and Russia was again divided into guberniyas, which were subdivided into uyezds , further subdivided into volosts ( DDDDNNN ); nevertheless several Governorates General made from several guberniyas existed until the Russian Revolution of 1917.
Guberniya in Poland and Finland [ edit ] 
For the guberniya (Russian: DNDDINDDN , Polish: gubernia , Swedish: lAn , Finnish: lAAni ) as subdivisions of the Kingdom of Poland ("Russian Poland") and the Grand Duchy of Finland ("Russian Finland"); see Administrative division of Congress Poland and Governorates of the Grand Duchy of Finland.
Post revolutionary changes [ edit ] 
After the February Revolution, the Russian Provisional Government renamed governors into guberniya commissars . The October Revolution left the subdivision in place, but the governing apparatus was replaced by guberniya soviets ( DNDDNDNDDD NDDDN ).
Actual subdivisions of the Soviet Union into particular territorial units was subject to numerous changes, especially during the 1918a1929 period. Because of the Soviet Union's electrification program under the GOELRO plan, Ivan Alexandrov directed the Regionalisation Commission of Gosplan to divide the Soviet union into thirteen European and eight Asiatic oblasts, using rational economic planning rather than "the vestiges of lost sovereign rights". [ 1 ] Eventually, in 1929, the subdivision was replaced by the notions of oblast, okrug, and raion .
In post-Soviet republics such as Russia and Ukraine, the term Guberniya is obsolete, yet the word gubernator was reinstated and is used when referring to a governor of an oblast or a krai.
There is another archaic meaning of the word as the word denoted a type of estate in former Lithuania of the Russian Empire till 1917.
Governorates of the Russian Empire (1708-1726), 1708-1709, Kazan, Ingermanland, Azov, Smolensk, 1710-1712, Saint Petersburg, 1713, Moscow, Riga, 1714-1716, N. Novgorod, 1717-1718, Astrakhan, 1719-1724, Nizhny Novgorod, Reval, 1725, Voronezh, 1726, Smolensk, The Governorates of Archangelgorod, Kiev and Siberia remained constant between 1708 and 1726., See also [ edit ] 
History of the administrative division of Russia, List of governorates of the Russian Empire, Governorate-General (Russian Empire), GOELRO plan, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ Ekonomicheskoe raionirovanie Rossii , Gosplan, Moscow 1921 , External links [ edit ] 
(Russian) Ignatov, V.G. "History of state administration of Russia" (DNNDNDN DDNNDDNNNDDDDDDD NDNDDDDDDN DDNNDD), . 
v , t , e , . Slavic terms for country subdivisions , Current dzielnica, gmina, krai, kraj, krajina / pokrajina, mAstys, obec, oblast / oblast' / oblasti / oblys / obwAd / voblast', okrAg, okres, okrug, opAtina / opAina / obAina / obshtina, osiedle, powiat / povit, raion, selsoviet / silrada, soAectwo, voivodeship / vojvodina, Aupanija, . , Historical darugha, gromada, guberniya / gubernia, jurydyka, khutor, obshchina, opole, pogost, prowincja, sorok, starostwo / starostva, uyezd, volost, ziemia, Aupa, . , v , t , e , . Subdivisions of the Russian Empire , Governorates Azov A, *AltaiA, Arkhangelsk, Archangelgorod , Astrakhan, Baku, Belgorod , Bessarabia, Bratslav , Byelorussia , Caucasus , Chernigov, Black Sea, Derbent , Grodno, Georgia-Imeretia , Georgia , Elisabethpol, Erivan, Finland , Iziaslav , Ingermanland , Irkutsk, Kazan, Kaluga, Kiev (1708) , Kiev, Kharkov, Kherson, Kholm, Kovno, Kolyvan , Kostroma, Kursk, Kutaisi, Lithuania , Little Russia , Minsk, Mogilev, Moscow, Nikolayev , Nizhny Novgorod, Novhorod-Siverskyi , Novgorod, Novorossiysk, Olonets, Orenburg, Oryol, Penza, Perm, *PetrogradA, Podolia, Polotsk , Poltava, Pskov, Ryazan, Samara, Saint Petersburg, Saratov, Shemakha , Siberia , Simbirsk, Slobodsko-Ukrainian , Slonim , Smolensk, Stavropol, Taurida, Tambov, Tver, Tiflis, Tobolsk, Tomsk, Tula, Ufa, Vilna, Vitebsk, Vladimir, Voznesensk , Vologda, Volhynian, Voronezh, Vyatka, Vyborg , Yaroslavl, Yekaterinoslav, Yeniseysk, . , Oblasts Amur, Armenian , Batumi, Belostok , Bessarabia , Don Voisko, Dagestan, Zabaikalskaya, Imeretia , Caucasus , Kamchatka, Kars, Caspian , Kwantung , Kuban, Orenburg Kirgiz , Omsk , Primorskaya, Sakhalin, Taurida , Tarnopolsky , Terek, Turgay, Ural, Yakut, . , Oblasts of Stepnoy Krai Aqmola, Siberia Kirgiz , Semipalatinsk Oblast, . , Oblasts of Turkestan Krai Transcaspian, Samarkand, Semirechye Oblast, Syr-Darya Oblast, Turkestan , Fergana, . , Governorates of Finland Abo och BjArneborg, Vasa (Nikolaistad), Viborg, Kuopio, Nyland (Helsinki), St. Michel, Tavastehus, UleAborg, . , Governorates of Poland AugustAw , Warsaw, Kalisz, Kielce, KrakAw , AomAa, Lublin, Masovia , PiotrkAw, PAock, Podlasie , Radom, Sandomierz , Siedlce , SuwaAki, . , Ostsee GovernoratesA Courland, Livonia, Reval , Riga , Estonia, . , Governorates of Galicia Lvov, PrzemyAl, Tarnopol, Chernovtsy, . , Special Districts Black Sea Okrug , Sukhumi Okrug, Zakatali Okrug, Zeravshan Okrug , . , Dependent state formations Bukeyev Horde , Emirate of Bukhara, Kokand Khanate , Russian America , Uriankhayskiy Krai , Khanate of Khiva, . , A Italics indicates renamed or abolished governorates, oblasts, etc on 1 January 1914.
A An asterisk (*) indicates governorates formed or created with renaming after 1 January 1914.
A Ostsee or Baltic general-governorship was abolished in 1876. , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Governorate_(Russia) and oldid=626816822" Categories: Types of country subdivisions, Local government in the Russian Empire, Governorates, Governorates of the Russian Empire, . Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from October 2012, All articles needing additional references, Articles containing Russian-language text, Articles containing Latin-language text, Articles containing Greek-language text, Articles containing Polish-language text, Articles containing Swedish-language text, Articles containing Finnish-language text, Articles with Russian-language external links, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, AzErbaycanca, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, DNDDDNNDD, CatalA, DODDNDD, AeAtina, Deutsch, Eesti, EspaAol, Esperanto, Euskara, FranAais, Galego, iei, Hrvatski, Italiano, ODDDOND, LietuviA, Magyar, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, SlovenAina, DNDNDD / srpski, Suomi, DDNDNND/tatarAa, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, Tiang Viat, . Edit links This page was last modified on 23 September 2014 at 21:36.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
