
Politics of Guernsey - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of Guernsey 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2009) , Guernsey , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Guernsey , The Crown Duke of Normandy Queen Elizabeth II, . , Lieutenant Governor Peter Walker, . , . , Government Chief Minister Jonathan Le Tocq, . , . , Legislature Bailiff Sir Geoffrey Rowland, . , . , Judiciary Crown Officers, Jurat, Courts of Guernsey, . , Regional Assemblies Parishes, . , Elections Political parties, Last election, . , Foreign policy Foreign relations, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , Politics of Guernsey take place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic British Crown dependency.
Contents
1 Offices , 2 The States of Deliberation , 3 Political parties and elections , 4 Judicial branch , 5 Administrative divisions , 6 References , 7 See also , . 
Offices [ edit ] 
Main office holders Office Name Party Since Lieutenant Governor, Peter Walker, 15 April 2011, Bailiff, Richard Collas, 2012, Chief Minister, Jonathan Le Tocq, 2014 [ 1 ] , The Lieutenant Governor is the representative of "the Crown in right of the rApublique of the Bailiwick of Guernsey". [ 2 ] The official residence of the Lieutenant Governor is Government House, Queens Road, St Peter Port. Since 15 April 2011, the incumbent is Peter Walker.
The Bailiff is the first civil officer in the Bailiwick of Guernsey, serving as president of the legislature and the Royal Court. The Bailiff is appointed by the Crown, and generally holds office until retirement age (65). He presides at the Royal Court, and takes the opinions of the Jurats , elected lay judges; he also presides over the States, and represents the Crown in all civil matters.
The States of Deliberation [ edit ] 
The States of Guernsey, officially called the [States of Deliberation], consists of 45 People's Deputies, elected from multi-member districts every four years. There are also two representatives from Alderney, a self-governing dependency of the Bailiwick, but Sark sends no representative. There are also two non-voting members - HM Procureur and HM Comptroller, appointed by the Crown.
Laws made by the States are known as Projet(s) de Loi before they are passed and Loi or Law(s) afterwards (e.g. The Human Rights (Bailiwick of Guernsey) Law 2000 .
A Project de Loi is the equivalent of an English Bill, and a Law is the equivalent of an English Act of Parliament. Laws have no effect until promulgated as Orders-in-Council of the Crown. They are given the Royal Sanction at regular meetings of the Privy Council in London after, which they are returned to the Islands for formal registration at the Royal Court.
The States also make delegated legislation known as Ordinances (Ordonnances) and Orders (Ordres) which do not require Royal Assent. Commencement orders are usually in the form of Ordinances.
Political parties and elections [ edit ] 
Main article: Elections in Guernsey 
Guernsey has no political parties with all representatives being elected as non-partisans.
ead Summary of the 21 April 2004 States of Guernsey election results Candidates Seats Elected non-partisans, 45, Representatives of the parish authorities, 0, Representatives of the States of Alderney, 2, Total, 47 , Judicial branch [ edit ] 
The legal system is derived from Norman French and English common law, justice being administered through a combination of Magistrates Court and the Royal Court. The Royal Court is presided over by the Bailiff and 12 Jurats (a permanent elected jury), the ultimate court of appeal being the Privy Council.
Administrative divisions [ edit ] 
Each parish is administered by a Douzaine. Douzeniers are elected for a six year mandate, two Douzeniers being elected by parishioners at a Parish Meeting in November each year. The senior Douzenier is known as the Doyen. Two elected Constables carry out the decisions of the Douzaine, serving for between one and three years. The longest serving Constable is known as the Senior Constable and his or her colleague as the Junior Constable.
Following the machinery of government changes in 2004, Guernsey has the following electoral districts, loosely based on the parish system:
St. Peter Port North, St. Peter Port South, St. Sampson's, Vale, Castel, South-East (St. Martin's and St. Andrew's), West (Torteval, Forest, St. Saviour's, St. Pierre-du-Bois), . 
References [ edit ] 
^ http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-guernsey-26545350 , ^ http://www.gov.je/SiteCollectionDocuments/Government and administration/R Guernsey LOs Submission 20100330 HR v1.pdf , See also [ edit ] 
Policy Council of Guernsey, Royal Commission on the Constitution (United Kingdom), . 
v , t , e , . BritishaIrish Council , Good Friday Agreement , Member jurisdictions Ireland, United Kingdom, Guernsey, Isle of Man, Jersey, Northern Ireland, Scotland, Wales, . , Member bodies Government of Ireland, Her Majesty's Government of the United Kingdom, Council of Ministers of Jersey, Isle of Man Government, Northern Ireland Executive, Policy Council of Guernsey, Scottish Government, Welsh Government, . , Work areas Demography, eHealth, Environment, Indigenous, minority and lesser-used languages, Knowledge economy, Misuse of drugs, Social inclusion, Tourism, Transport, . , v , t , e , . Politics of Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey , Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_Guernsey and oldid=617698861" Categories: Politics of Guernsey, . Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from December 2009, All articles needing additional references, Use dmy dates from February 2011, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
, . Edit links This page was last modified on 20 July 2014 at 12:02.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
