
Head of state - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Head of state 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search This article is about the political term. For other uses, see Head of state (disambiguation). A photomontage made in 1889 featuring the heads of state of several countries at that time.
From left to right: Yohannes IV (Emperor of Ethiopia), Tewfik Pasha (Khedive of Egypt), Abdul Hamid II (Sultan of the Ottoman Empire), Naser al-Din Shah Qajar (Shah of Persia), Christian IX (King of Denmark), Dom LuAs I (King of Portugal), William III (King of the Netherlands), Dom Pedro II (Emperor of Brazil), Milan I (King of Serbia), Leopold II (King of the Belgians), Alexander III (Emperor of Russia), William I (German Emperor and King of Prussia), Franz Joseph I (Emperor of Austria and King of Hungary), Victoria (Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and Empress of India), Jules GrAvy (President of the French Republic), Leo XIII (Pope), Meiji (Emperor of Japan), Guangxu (Emperor of China), Umberto I (King of Italy), Don Alfonso XII (King of Spain), Oscar II (King of Sweden and Norway) and Chester A. Arthur (President of the United States). 
The head of state is the highest-ranking constitutional position [ note 1 ] in a sovereign state. The head of state is vested with powers to act as the chief public representative of that state. Heads of state in most countries are natural persons holding an office. In a monarchy the reigning monarch is the head of state, though the title may not be king or queen. In a republic the head of state is usually titled president, but may have other titles such as chairman. However, in four United Nations member states the head of state position is held by a body of persons: the Federal Council of Switzerland, the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Co-Princes of Andorra and the Captains Regent of San Marino. [ 1 ] [ note 2 ] The role and functions of the office of head of state may range from purely ceremonial or symbolic to the real executive power in a state.
The office is usually distinct from a head of government . For example, the distinction is made in article 7 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, article 1 of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Crimes against Internationally Protected Persons, including Diplomatic Agents and the United Nations protocol list. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] [ 3 ] For instance, in parliamentary systems like the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Federal Republic of Germany; the Monarch and the President are recognized as their respective heads of state, while the Prime Minister and the Chancellor are recognized as the heads of government. [ 1 ] [ 4 ] [ 5 ] However, in republics with a presidential system, as in the United States and the Federative Republic of Brazil, their presidents are recognized as being both heads of state and heads of government . [ 1 ] [ 6 ] [ 7 ] 
The role of the head of state generally includes legitimizing the state and exercising the functions and duties granted to the head of state in the country's constitution, laws, unwritten customs, or by their traditions. The Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations operates under the presumption that the head of a diplomatic mission (i.e. ambassador or nuncio) of the sending state is accredited to the head of state of the receiving state. [ 8 ] In nation states the head of state position is often thought of, depending on the powers held by that position, as either the official "leader" or "mascot" of the nation.
Charles de Gaulle described the role he envisaged for the French presidency before he wrote the modern French constitution, stating the head of state should embody "the spirit of the nation" for the nation itself and the world: "a certain idea about France" (French: une certaine idAe de la France ). [ 9 ] Today, many countries expect their head of state to embody their national values with dignity in a similar fashion.
Part of the Politics series on, Executive government Head of state Monarch, President, . , Government Head of government Chancellor, Chief Executive, Chief Minister, First Minister, Premier, Prime Minister, . , . , Cabinet 
Cabinet collective responsibility, . , Ministry Minister, Secretary, . , . , Other Governor, Mayor, . , . , Systems Presidential, Semi-presidential (cohabitational) , Parliamentary (Westminster) , . , Lists National leaders, National governments, Heads of State and Government, . , Politics portal, v , t , e , . , Contents
1 Constitutional models 1.1 Parliamentary system 1.1.1 Standard model , 1.1.2 Non-executive model , . , 1.2 Semi-presidential systems , 1.3 Presidential system , 1.4 Single-party states , 1.5 Complications with categorization , . , 2 Roles of heads of state 2.1 Symbolic role , 2.2 Executive role 2.2.1 Appointment of senior officials , 2.2.2 Diplomatic role , 2.2.3 Military role , . , 2.3 Legislative roles , 2.4 Summoning and dissolving the legislature , 2.5 Other prerogatives 2.5.1 Granting nobility, knighthood and various titles and other honors , 2.5.2 Immunity , 2.5.3 Reserve Powers , 2.5.4 Right of pardon , . , . , 3 Selection and various types and styles of heads of state 3.1 Shared and substitute heads of state 3.1.1 Interim , 3.1.2 Representation , 3.1.3 Extraordinary arrangements , . , 3.2 Religious heads of state 3.2.1 Christianity , 3.2.2 Islam , 3.2.3 Hinduism , 3.2.4 Buddhism , . , 3.3 City states and crowned republics , 3.4 Multiple or collective heads of state , 3.5 Unique cases and titles , . , 4 Legitimacy 4.1 By fiction or fiat , 4.2 By divine appointment , 4.3 By social contract , 4.4 By constitution , 4.5 By hereditary succession , 4.6 By election , 4.7 By appointment , 4.8 By force or revolution , 4.9 By foreign imposition , 4.10 Loss , . , 5 Former heads of state , 6 See also , 7 Notes , 8 References , 9 Bibliography , 10 External links , . 
Constitutional models [ edit ] 
, This section needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2012) , In protocolary terms, states are distinguished as monarchy or republic depending on the style (and usually mode of accession, see below) of their head of state, a typical constitutional provision, but as such this is not defining for the actual political system, which often evolves significantly, or can remain unaltered in other respects despite a transition from monarchy to republic (or, rarer, vice versa).
Different state constitutions (fundamental laws) establish different political systems, but four major types of heads of state can be distinguished:
The parliamentary system, with two subset models; The standard model , in which the head of state, in theory, possesses key executive powers, but the exercise of such power is done on the binding advice of a head of government., The non-executive model , in which the head of state has either none or very limited executive powers, and mainly has a ceremonial and symbolic role., The semi-presidential system, in which the head of state shares key executive powers with a head of government and/or cabinet; and, The presidential system, in which the head of state is also the head of government and has all executive powers., The same role in a federal constituent and a dependent territory is fulfilled by the corresponding office equivalent to that of a head of state. For example, in each Canadian province the role is fulfilled by the Lieutenant Governor, whereas in most British Overseas Territories the powers and duties are performed by the Governor. The same applies to Australian states, Indian states, etc. Hong Kong's constitutional document, the Basic Law, for example, specifies the Chief Executive as the head of the special administrative region, in addition to his role as the head of government. These non-sovereign-state heads, nevertheless, have limited or no role in diplomatic affairs, depending on the status and the norms and practices of the territories concerned.
Parliamentary system [ edit ] 
Standard model [ edit ] 
Queen Elizabeth II, one of the world's best-known and longest-serving heads of state 
In parliamentary systems the head of state may be merely the nominal chief executive officer, heading the executive branch of the state, and possessing executive power. In reality, however, following a process of constitutional evolution, powers are usually only exercised by direction of a cabinet, presided over by a head of government who is answerable to the legislature. This accountability and legitimacy requires that someone be chosen who has a majority support in the legislature (or, at least, not a majority opposition - a subtle but important difference). It also gives the legislature the right to vote down the head of government and his cabinet, forcing it either to resign or seek a parliamentary dissolution. The executive branch is thus said to be responsible (or answerable) to the legislature, with the head of government and cabinet in turn accepting constitutional responsibility for offering constitutional advice to the head of state.
In parliamentary constitutional monarchies, the legitimacy of the unelected head of state typically derives from the tacit approval of the people via the elected representatives. Accordingly, at the time of the Glorious Revolution, the English Parliament acted of its own authority to name a new king and queen (joint monarchs Mary II and William III); likewise, Edward VIII's abdication required the approval of each of the six independent realms of which he was monarch. In monarchies with a written constitution, the position of monarch is a creature of the constitution and could quite properly be abolished through a democratic procedure of constitutional amendment, although there are often significant procedural hurdles imposed on such a procedure (as in the Constitution of Spain).
In republics with a parliamentary system (such as India, Germany, Austria, Italy and Israel) the head of state is usually titled president , but the principal functions of such presidents are mainly ceremonial and symbolic, as opposed to the presidents in a presidential or semi-presidential system.
Pranab Mukherjee, President of India. 
In reality, numerous variants exist to the position of a head of state within a parliamentary system. The older the constitution, the more constitutional leeway tends to exist for a head of state to exercise greater powers over government, as many older parliamentary system constitutions in fact give heads of state powers and functions akin to presidential or semi-presidential systems, in some cases without containing reference to modern democratic principles of accountability to parliament or even to modern governmental offices. Usually, the King had the power of declaring war without previous consent of the Parliament.
For example, under the 1848 constitution of the Kingdom of Italy, the Statuto Albertino , the parliamentary approval to the government appointed by the King was customary, but not required by law. So, Italy had a de facto parliamentarian system, but a de jure "presidential" system.
Some Commonwealth parliamentary systems combine a body of written constitutional law, unwritten constitutional precedent, Orders in Council, letters patent, etc. that may give a head of state or their representative additional powers in unexpected circumstances (such as the dismissal of Australian prime minister Gough Whitlam by Governor-General Sir John Kerr.)
Other examples of heads of state in parliamentary systems using greater powers than usual, either because of ambiguous constitutions or unprecedented national emergencies, include the decision by King LAopold III of the Belgians to surrender on behalf of his state to the invading German army in 1940, against the will of his government. Judging that his responsibility to the nation by virtue of his coronation oath required him to act, he believed that his government's decision to fight rather than surrender was mistaken and would damage Belgium. (Leopold's decision proved highly controversial. After World War II, Belgium voted in a referendum to allow him back on the throne, but because of the ongoing controversy he ultimately abdicated.)
Non-executive model [ edit ] 
Two contemporary figurehead monarchs who do not even in theory possess any discretionary governance powers: Akihito, Emperor of Japan (left), and Carl XVI Gustaf, King of Sweden (right.) 
These officials are excluded completely from the executive: they do not possess even theoretical executive powers or any role, even formal, within the government. Hence their states' governments are not referred to by the traditional parliamentary model head of state styles of "His/Her Majesty's Government" or "His/Her Excellency's Government." Within this general category, variants in terms of powers and functions may exist.
The Constitution of Japan, also known as the "Constitution of the State of Japan" ( aeaeaaeae , Nihonkoku-KenpA ? ) , was drawn up under the Allied occupation that followed World War II and was intended to replace the previous militarist absolute monarchy with a form of liberal democracy in a parliamentary system. The Constitution explicitly vests all executive powers in the Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister (Articles 65 and 66) and responsible to the National Diet (articles 67 and 69). The Emperoradefined in the Constitution as "the symbol of the State and of the unity of the people" (Article 1) and generally recognized throughout the world as the Japanese head of stateais a ceremonial figurehead with no independent discretionary powers related to the governance of Japan. [ 1 ] [ 10 ] [ 11 ] 
Since the passage of the 1974 Instrument of Government, the Swedish monarch no longer has many of the standard parliamentary system head of state functions that had previously belonged to him or her, as was the case in the preceding 1809 Instrument of Government. Nowadays, the Speaker of the Riksdag appoints (following a vote in the Riksdag) the Prime Minister and terminates his commission following a vote of no confidence or voluntary resignation. Cabinet members are appointed and dismissed at the sole discretion of the Prime Minister. Executive authority is vested in the Government, of which the King is not a member. Laws and ordinances are promulgated by two cabinet members in unison signing "On Behalf of the Government". The Governmentanot the Kingais the high contracting party with respect to international treaties. The remaining official functions of the King, by constitutional mandate or by unwritten convention, are to open the annual session of the Riksdag, receive foreign ambassadors and sign the letters of credence for Swedish ambassadors, chair the foreign advisory committee, preside at the special cabinet council when a new Prime Minister takes office, and to be kept informed by the Prime Minister on matters of state. [ 12 ] [ 13 ] 
In contrast, the only contact the President of Ireland has with the Irish government is through a formal briefing session given by the Taoiseach (head of government) to the President. However, he or she has no access to documentation and all access to ministers goes through the Department of the Taoiseach. The President does however hold limited reserve powers, such as referring a bill to the Supreme Court to test its constitutionality, which are used under the president's discretion. [ 14 ] 
Semi-presidential systems [ edit ] 
Charles de Gaulle, President of the French Republic, established the semi-presidential system in France. Main article: Semi-presidential system 
Semi-presidential systems combine features of presidential and parliamentary systems, notably a requirement that the government be answerable to both the president and the legislature. The constitution of the Fifth French Republic provides for a prime minister who is chosen by the president, but who nevertheless must be able to gain support in the National Assembly. Should a president be of one side of the political spectrum and the opposition be in control of the legislature, the president is usually obliged to select someone from the opposition to become prime minister, a process known as Cohabitation. President FranAois Mitterrand, a Socialist, for example, was forced to cohabit with the neo-Gaullist (right wing) Jacques Chirac, who became his prime minister from 1986 to 1988. In the French system, in the event of cohabitation, the president is often allowed to set the policy agenda in security and foreign affairs and the prime minister runs the domestic agenda.
Other countries evolve into something akin to a semi-presidential system or indeed a full presidential system. Weimar Germany, for example, in its constitution provided for a popularly elected president with theoretically dominant executive powers that were intended to be exercised only in emergencies, and a cabinet appointed by him from the Reichstag, which was expected, in normal circumstances, to be answerable to the Reichstag. Initially, the President was merely a symbolic figure with the Reichstag dominant; however, persistent political instability, in which governments often lasted only a few months, led to a change in the power structure of the republic, with the president's emergency powers called increasingly into use to prop up governments challenged by critical or even hostile Reichstag votes. By 1932, power had shifted to such an extent that the German President, Paul von Hindenburg, was able to dismiss a chancellor and select his own person for the job, even though the outgoing chancellor possessed the confidence of the Reichstag while the new chancellor did not. Subsequently President von Hindenburg used his power to appoint Adolf Hitler as Chancellor without consulting the Reichstag.
Presidential system [ edit ] 
George Washington, the first President of the United States, set the precedent for an executive head of state in republican systems of government. Main article: Presidential system 
Note: The head of state in a "presidential" system may not actually hold the title of "president" - the name of the system refers to any head of state who actually governs and is not directly dependent on the legislature to remain in office. 
Some constitutions or fundamental laws provide for a head of state who is not only in theory but in practice chief executive, operating separately from, and independent from, the legislature. This system is known as a "presidential system" and sometimes called the "imperial model", because the executive officials of the government are answerable solely and exclusively to a presiding, acting head of state, and is selected by and on occasion dismissed by the head of state without reference to the legislature. It is notable that some presidential systems, while not providing for collective executive accountability to the legislature, may require legislative approval for individuals prior to their assumption of cabinet office and empower the legislature to remove a president from office (for example, in the United States of America). In this case the debate centers on the suitability of the individual for office, not a judgement on them when appointed, and does not involve the power to reject or approve proposed cabinet members en bloc , so it is not accountability in the sense understood in a parliamentary system.
Presidential systems are a notable feature of constitutions in the Americas, including those of the Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, El Salvador, Mexico and Venezuela; this is generally attributed to the strong influence of the United States in the region, and as the United States Constitution served as an inspiration and model for the Latin American wars of independence of the early 19th century. Most presidents in such countries are selected by democratic means (popular direct or indirect election); however, like all other systems, the presidential model also encompasses people who become head of state by other means, notably through military dictatorship or coup d'Atat , as often seen in Latin American, Middle Eastern and other presidential regimes. Some of the characteristics of a presidential system (i.e., a strong dominant political figure with an executive answerable to them, not the legislature) can also be found among absolute monarchies, parliamentary monarchies and single party (e.g. Communist) regimes, but in most cases of dictatorship, their stated constitutional models are applied in name only and not in political theory or practice.
In the 1870s in the United States, in the aftermath of the impeachment of President Andrew Johnson and his near-removal from office, it was speculated that the United States, too, would move from a presidential system to a semi-presidential or even parliamentary one, with the Speaker of the House of Representatives becoming the real center of government as a quasi-prime minister. This did not happen and the presidency, having been damaged by three late nineteenth and early twentieth century assassinations (Lincoln, Garfield and McKinley) and one impeachment (Johnson), reasserted its political dominance by the early twentieth century through such figures as Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson.
In a sense, elected monarchies, such as the Holy See, the defunct Holy Roman Empire or pre 16th century Swedish monarchy, can be regarded as 'crowned' presidential systems.
Single-party states [ edit ] 
The State Emblem of the Soviet Union. 
In certain states under Marxist constitutions of the constitutionally socialist state type inspired by the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) and its constitutive Soviet republics, real political power belonged to the sole legal party. In these states, there was no formal office of head of state, but rather the leader of the legislative branch was considered to be the closest common equivalent of a head of state as a natural person. In the Soviet Union this position carried such titles as Chairman of the Central Executive Committee of the USSR ; Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet ; and in the case of the Soviet Russia Chairman of the Central Executive Committee of the All-Russian Congress of Soviets (pre-1922), and Chairman of the Bureau of the Central Committee of the Russian SFSR (1956a1966). This position may or may not have been held by the de facto Soviet leader at the moment. For example, Nikita Khrushchev never headed the Supreme Soviet but was First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party (party leader) and Chairman of the Council of Ministers (head of government).
This may even lead to an institutional variability, as in North Korea, where, after the presidency of party leader Kim Il-Sung, the office was vacant for years, the late president being granted the posthumous title (akin to some ancient Far Eastern traditions to give posthumous names and titles to royalty) of "Eternal President" (while all substantive power, as party leader, itself not formally created for four years, was inherited by his son Kim Jong Il, initially without any formal office) until it was formally replaced on 5 September 1998, for ceremonial purposes, by the office of Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme People's Assembly, while the party leader's post as Chairman of the National Defense Commission was simultaneously declared "the highest post of the state", not unlike Deng Xiaoping earlier in the People's Republic of China.
Complications with categorization [ edit ] 
Vaduz Castle is the official residence of the Prince of Liechtenstein. 
While clear categories do exist, it is sometimes difficult to choose which category some individual heads of state belong to. In reality, the category to which each head of state belongs is assessed not by theory but by practice.
Constitutional change in Liechtenstein in 2003 gave its head of state, the Reigning Prince, constitutional powers that included a veto over legislation and power to dismiss the head of government and cabinet. [ 15 ] It could be argued that the strengthening of the Prince's powers, vis-a-vis the Landtag (legislature), has moved Liechtenstein into the semi-presidential category. Similarly the original powers given to the Greek President under the 1974 Hellenic Republic constitution moved Greece closer to the French semi-presidential model.
Another complication exists with South Africa, in which the President is in fact elected by the National Assembly (legislature) and is thus similar, in principle, to a head of government in a parliamentary system but is also, in addition, recognized as the head of state. [ 16 ] The offices of President of Nauru and President of Botswana are similar in this respect to the South African presidency. [ 1 ] [ 17 ] [ 18 ] 
Panama, during the military dictatorships of Omar Torrijos and Manuel Noriega, was nominally a presidential republic. However, the elected civilian presidents were effectively figureheads with real political power being exercised by the chief of the Panamanian Defense Forces.
Roles of heads of state [ edit ] 
Coronations are a major ceremony in monarchies: King Bhumibol Adulyadej is pouring the water of donation at his coronation in the Grand Palace in Bangkok on 5 May 1950 (left), and Queen Elizabeth II and the Duke of Edinburgh in her coronation portrait on 2 June 1953. Mount Rushmore in South Dakota has sculptures of presidents George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln (left to right) representing the first 130 years of the history of the United States of America. 
Often depending on which constitutional category (above) a head of state belongs to, they may have some or all of the roles listed below, and various other ones.
Symbolic role [ edit ] 
One of the most important roles of the modern head of state is being a living national symbol of the state; in hereditary monarchies this extends to the monarch being a symbol of the unbroken continuity of the state. For instance, the Canadian monarch is described by the government as being the personification of the Canadian state and is described by the Department of Canadian Heritage as the "personal symbol of allegiance, unity and authority for all Canadians". [ 19 ] [ 20 ] 
In many countries, official portraits of the head of state can be found in government offices, courts of law, even airports, libraries, and other public buildings. The idea, sometimes regulated by law, is to use these portraits to make the public aware of the symbolic connection to the government, a practice that dates back to medieval times. Sometimes this practice is taken to excess, and the head of state becomes the principal symbol of the nation, resulting in the emergence of a personality cult where the image of the head of state is the only visual representation of the country, surpassing other symbols such as the flag.
Other common iconic presences, especially of monarchs, are on coins, stamps and banknotes; more discreet variations see them represented by a mention and/or signature. Furthermore, various institutions, monuments and the like, are named for current or previous heads of state, such as streets and squares, schools, charitable and other organizations; in monarchies (e.g. Belgium) there can even be a practice to attribute the adjective "royal" on demand based on existence for a given number of years. However, such political techniques can also be used by leaders without the formal rank of head of state, even party - and other revolutionary leaders without formal state mandate.
Several heads of state and their consorts, as the foremost representatives of their nations, gather at the funeral for the late Pope John Paul II in 2005. Among those in the picture are King Albert II of the Belgians, U.S. President George W. Bush, French President Jacques Chirac, Philippine President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, Estonian President Arnold RAAtel, and Portuguese President Jorge Sampaio. Giorgio Napolitano, President of Italy, during a military ceremony. 
Heads of state often greet important foreign visitors, particularly visiting heads of state. They assume a host role during a state visit, and the programme may feature playing of the national anthems by a military band, inspection of military troops, official exchange of gifts, and attending a state dinner at the official residence of the host.
At home, heads of state are expected to render luster to various occasions by their presence, such as by attending artistic or sports performances or competitions (often in a theatrical honor box, on a platform, on the front row, at the honours table, etc.), expositions, national day celebrations, military parades and war remembrances, prominent funerals, visiting different parts of the country and people from different walks of life, and at times performing symbolic acts such as cutting a ribbon, groundbreaking, ship christening, laying the first stone, and so on. Some parts of national life receive their regular attention, often on an annual basis, or even in the form of official patronage.
The Olympic Charter (rule 55.3) of the International Olympic Committee states that the Olympic summer and winter games shall be opened by the head of state of the host nation, by uttering a single formulaic phrase as determined by the charter. [ 21 ] 
As the potential for such invitations is enormous, such duties are often in part delegated to such persons as a spouse, a head of government or a cabinet minister or in other cases (possibly as a message, for instance, to distance themselves without rendering offense) just a military officer or civil servant.
For non-executive heads of state there is often a degree of censorship by the politically responsible government (such as the head of government), discreetly approving agenda and speeches, especially where the constitution (or customary law) assumes all political responsibility by granting the crown inviolability (in fact also imposing political emasculation) as in the Kingdom of Belgium from its very beginning; in a monarchy this may even be extended to some degree to other members of the dynasty, especially the heir to the throne.
Below follows a list of examples from different countries of general provisions in law, which either designate an office as head of state and/or define its general purpose. 
Example 1 (parliamentary monarchy): Section 56 (1) of the Spanish Constitution of 1978 states: The King is the Head of State, the symbol of its unity and permanence. He arbitrates and moderates the regular functioning of the institutions, assumes the highest representation of the Spanish State in international relations, especially with the nations of its historical community, and exercises the functions expressly conferred on him by the Constitution and the laws. [ 22 ] Example 2 (parliamentary absentee monarchy): Article 2 of the New Zealand Constitution Act 1986 states: (1) The Sovereign in right of New Zealand is the head of State of New Zealand, and shall be known by the royal style and titles proclaimed from time to time. (2) The Governor-General appointed by the Sovereign is the Sovereign's representative in New Zealand. [ 23 ] Example 3 (parliamentary non-executive monarchy): Article 1 of the Constitution of Japan states: The Emperor shall be the symbol of the State and of the unity of the People, deriving his position from the will of the people with whom resides sovereign power. [ 10 ] Example 4 (parliamentary republic): Title II, Article 87 of the Constitution of Italy states: The President of the Republic is the Head of the State and represents national unity. [ 24 ] Example 5 (parliamentary republic): Article 67 of the Iraqi constitution of 2005 states: The President of the Republic is the Head of the State and a symbol of the unity of the country and represents the sovereignty of the country. He shall guarantee the commitment to the Constitution and the preservation of Iraqas independence, sovereignty, unity, and the safety of its territories, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. [ 25 ] Example 6 (semi-presidential republic): Title II, Chapter I, Article 120 of the Constitution of Portugal states: The President of the Republic represents the Portuguese Republic, guarantees national independence, the unity of the state and the proper operation of the democratic institutions, and is ex officio Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. [ 26 ] Example 7 (semi-presidential republic): Chapter IV, Section 1, Article 66 of the Constitution of the Republic of Korea states: (1)The President shall be the Head of State and represent the State vis-A-vis foreign states. (2)The President shall have the responsibility and duty to safeguard the independence, territorial integrity and continuity of the State and the Constitution. [ 27 ] Example 8 (semi-presidential republic): Chapter VI, Article 77 of the Constitution of Lithuania states: The President of the Republic shall be Head of State. He shall represent the State of Lithuania and shall perform everything with which he is charged by the Constitution and laws. [ 28 ] Example 9 (semi-presidential republic): Chapter 4, Article 80, Section 1-2 of the Constitution of Russia states: 1. The President of the Russian Federation shall be the Head of State. 2. The President of the Russian Federation shall be the guarantor of the Constitution of the Russian Federation and of human and civil rights and freedoms. In accordance with the procedure established by the Constitution of the Russian Federation, he (she) shall adopt measures to protect the sovereignty of the Russian Federation, its independence and State integrity, and shall ensure the coordinated functioning and interaction of State government bodies. [ 29 ] Example 10 (presidential republic): Section 87 (Second Division, Chapter 1) of the Constitution of Argentina provides that: The Executive Power of the Nation shall be vested in a citizen with the title of "President of the Argentine Nation". [ 30 ] 
Executive role [ edit ] 
The appointments and dismissals of members of the German cabinet is approved by President Richard von WeizsAcker (right), on the advice of Chancellor Helmut Kohl (left) in 1991. Brazilian cabinet meeting chaired by Former President Luiz InAcio Lula da Silva on April 2, 2007. 
In the majority of states, whether republics or monarchies, executive authority is vested, at least notionally, in the head of state. In presidential systems the head of state is the actual, de facto chief executive officer. Under parliamentary systems the executive authority is exercised by the head of state, but in practice is done so on the advice of the cabinet of ministers. This produces such terms as "Her Majesty's Government" and "His Excellency's Government." Examples of parliamentary systems in which the head of state is notional chief executive include Australia, Austria, Canada, Denmark, Germany, India, Italy, Norway, Spain and the United Kingdom.
Example 1 (parliamentary monarchy): According to Section 12 of the Constitution of Denmark 1953: Subject to the limitations laid down in this Constitution Act the King shall have the supreme authority in all the affairs of the Realm, and he shall exercise such supreme authority through the Ministers. [ 31 ] Example 2 (parliamentary absentee monarchy): Under Chapter II, Section 61 of the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act 1900: The executive power of the Commonwealth is vested in the Queen and is exercisable by the Governor-General as the Queen's representative, and extends to the execution and maintenance of this Constitution, and of the laws of the Commonwealth. [ 32 ] Example 3 (parliamentary republic): According to Article 26 (2) of the 1975 Constitution of Greece: The executive power shall be exercised by the President of the Republic and the Government. [ 33 ] Example 4 (parliamentary republic): According to Article 53 (1) of the Constitution of India: The executive power of the union shall be vested in the President and shall be exercised by him either directly or indirectly through the officers subordinate to him in accordance to the Constitution. [ 34 ] Example 5 (semi-presidential republic): Under Chapter 4, Article 80, Section 3 of the Constitution of Russia: The President of the Russian Federation shall, in accordance with the Constitution of the Russian Federation and federal laws, determine the basic objectives of the internal and foreign policy of the State. [ 29 ] Example 6 (presidential republic): Title IV, Chapter II, Section I, Article 76 of the Constitution of Brazil: The Executive Power is exercised by the President of the Republic, assisted by the Ministers of State. [ 35 ] Example 7 (presidential republic): Article 2, Section 1 of the United States Constitution states: The executive Power shall be vested in a President of the United States of America. [ 36 ] 
The few exceptions where the head of state is not even the nominal chief executive - and where supreme executive authority is according to the constitution explicitly vested in a cabinet - include the Czech Republic, Ireland, Israel, Japan and Sweden. [ 10 ] [ 12 ] 
Appointment of senior officials [ edit ] 
Then Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands with the Rutte cabinet in October 2010. Lieutenant General Arvydas Pocius, Lithunanian Army is invested as Chief of Defense by President Dalia Grybauskaite in 2009. 
The head of state usually appoints most or all the key officials in the government, including the head of government and other cabinet ministers, key judicial figures; and all major office holders in the civil service, foreign service and commissioned officers in the military. In many parliamentary systems, the head of government is appointed with the consent (in practice often decisive) of the legislature, and other figures are appointed on the head of government's advice.
In practice, these decisions are often a formality. The last time a British monarch unilaterally selected the Prime Minister was in 1963, when Queen Elizabeth II appointed Alec Douglas-Home on the advice of outgoing Prime Minister Harold Macmillan. In Canada, a similar situation took place in 1925 wherein Governor General Lord Byng of Vimy appointed Arthur Meighen after William Lyon Mackenzie King refused to resign the premiership (known as the King-Byng Affair). In 1975, Governor-General of Australia Sir John Kerr appointed Malcolm Fraser as caretaker Prime Minister after having dismissed his predecessor Gough Whitlam.
In presidential systems, such as that of the United States, appointments are nominated by the President's sole discretion, but this nomination is often subject to confirmation by the legislature; and specifically in the US, the Senate has to approve senior executive branch and judicial appointments by a simple majority vote. [ 36 ] 
The head of state may also dismiss office-holders. There are many variants on how this can be done. For example, members of the Irish Cabinet are dismissed by the President on the advice of the Taoiseach; in other instances, the head of state may be able to dismiss an office holder unilaterally; other heads of state, or their representatives, have the theoretical power to dismiss any office-holder, while it is exceptionally rarely used. [ 14 ] In France, while the President cannot force the Prime Minister to tender the resignation of the Government, he can, in practice, request it if the Prime Minister is from his own majority. [ 37 ] In presidential systems, the president often has the power to fire ministers at his sole discretion. In the United States, the unwritten convention calls for the heads of the executive departments to resign on their own initiative when called to do so.
Example 1 (parliamentary monarchy): Article 96 of the Constitution of Belgium: The King appoints and dismisses his ministers.
The Federal Government offers its resignation to the King if the House of Representatives, by an absolute majority of its members, adopts a motion of no confidence proposing a successor to the prime minister for appointment by the King or proposes a successor to the prime minister for appointment by the King within three days of the rejection of a motion of confidence. The King appoints the proposed successor as prime minister, who takes office when the new Federal Government is sworn in. [ 38 ] Example 2 (parliamentary non-executive republic): Article 13.1.1 of the Constitution of Ireland: The President shall, on the nomination of DAil Aireann, appoint the Taoiseach. [ 14 ] Example 3 (semi-presidential republic): Chapter 4, Section 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Korea states: The Prime Minister is appointed by the President with the consent of the National Assembly. [ 27 ] Example 4 (presidential republic): Article 84 of the Constitution of Brazil: The President of the Republic shall have the exclusive power to: I - appoint and dismiss the Ministers of State: XIII - ...appoint the commanders of Navy, Army and Air Force, to promote general officers and to appoint them to the offices held exclusively by them; XIV - appoint, after approval by the Senate, the Justices of the Supreme Federal Court and those of the superior courts, the Governors of the territories, the Attorney-General of the Republic, the President and the Directors of the Central Bank and other civil servants, when established by law; XV - appoint, with due regard for the provisions of article 73, the Justices of the Federal Court of Accounts; XVI - appoint judges in the events established by this Constitution and the Advocate-General of the Union; XVII - appoint members of the Council of the Republic, in accordance with article 89, VII XXV - fill and abolish federal government positions, as set forth by law . [ 35 ] 
Some countries have alternative provisions for senior appointments: In Sweden, under the Instrument of Government of 1974, the Speaker of the Riksdag has the role of formally appointing the Prime Minister, following a vote in the Riksdag, and the Prime Minister in turn appoints and dismisses cabinet ministers at his/her sole discretion. [ 12 ] 
Diplomatic role [ edit ] 
Tekiso Hati, Ambassador of the Kingdom of Lesotho, presenting his credentials to Russian President Vladimir Putin. Daniel B. Shapiro, U.S. Ambassador to Israel, presents his credentials to President of Israel Shimon Peres on 3 August 2011. A 1992 Letter of Credence, written in French, for the Czechoslovakian Ambassador to Lithuania, signed by the President of Czechoslovakia and addressed to his Lithuanian counterpart. 
The head of state accredits (i.e. formally validates) his or her country's ambassadors (or rarer equivalent diplomatic mission chiefs, such as high commissioner or papal nuncio) through sending formal a Letter of Credence to other heads of state and, conversely, receives the letters of their foreign counterparts. Without that accreditation, the chief of the diplomatic mission cannot take up their role and receive the highest diplomatic status. The role of a head of state in this regard, is codified in the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations from 1961, which (as of 2012) 187 sovereign states has ratified. [ 8 ] [ 39 ] 
However, there are provisions in the Vienna Convention that a diplomatic agent of lesser rank, such as a ChargA d'affaires, is accredited to the minister of foreign affairs (or equivalent). [ 8 ] 
The head of state is often designated the high contracting party in international treaties on behalf of the state; signs them either personally or has them signed in his/her name by ministers (government members or diplomats); subsequent ratification, when necessary, may rest with the legislature. [ 40 ] [ 41 ] [ 42 ] 
Example 1 (parliamentary monarchy): Article 8 of the Constitution of the Principality of Liechtenstein states: 1) The Reigning Prince shall represent the State in all its relations with foreign countries, without prejudice to the requisite participation of the responsible Government. 2) Treaties by which territory of the State would be ceded, State property alienated, sovereign rights or prerogatives of the State affected, a new burden imposed on the Principality or its citizens, or an obligation assumed that would limit the rights of the citizens of Liechtenstein shall require the assent of Parliament to attain legal force. [ 15 ] Example 2 (parliamentary republic): Article 59 (1) of the Basic Law of the Federal Republic of Germany states: The Federal President shall represent the Federation in its international relations. He shall conclude treaties with foreign states on behalf of the Federation. He shall accredit and receive envoys. . [ 43 ] Example 3 (semi-presidential republic): Title II, Article 14 of the French Constitution of 1958 states: The President of the Republic shall accredit ambassadors and envoys extraordinary to foreign powers; foreign ambassadors and envoys extraordinary shall be accredited to him. [ 37 ] Example 4 (semi-presidential republic): Chapter 4, Article 86, Section 4 of the Constitution of Russia states: The President of the Russian Federation: a) shall direct the foreign policy of the Russian Federation; b) shall hold negotiations and sign international treaties of the Russian Federation; c) shall sign instruments of ratification; d) shall receive letters of credence and letters of recall of diplomatic representatives accredited to his (her) office. [ 29 ] Example 5 (single party republic): Section 2, Article 81 of the Constitution of the People's Republic of China states: The President of the People's Republic of China receives foreign diplomatic representatives on behalf of the People's Republic of China and, in pursuance of decisions of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, appoints and recalls plenipotentiary representatives abroad, and ratifies and abrogates treaties and important agreements concluded with foreign states. [ 44 ] Images of the signature blocks with seals of the 2011 Croatia EU Accession Treaty, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic and Denmark
, Germany, Estonia, Ireland and Greece
, Spain, France, Croatia and Italy
, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania and Luxembourg
, Hungary, Malta, the Netherlands and Austria
, Poland, Portugal, Romania and Slovenia
, Slovakia, Finland, Sweden and the United Kingdom
, . 
In Canada, these head of state powers belong to the Monarch as part of the Royal Prerogative, [ 45 ] [ 46 ] [ 47 ] [ 48 ] but the Governor General has been permitted to exercise them since 1947 and has done so since the 1970s. [ 48 ] [ 49 ] 
Military role [ edit ] 
Main article: Commander in Chief Cristina FernAndez de Kirchner is, as the President of Argentina, also the Commander in Chief of the Argentine Armed Forces. [ 30 ] Albert II, King of the Belgians inspecting troops on Belgium's national day in 2011. Nicolas Sarkozy, President of France and General Jean-Louis Georgelin, Chief of the Defence Staff, reviewing troops during the 2008 Bastille Day military parade on the Champs-AlysAes in Paris. Former President Lula, with his wife Marisa LetAcia, reviews troops during Independence Day military parade in BrasAlia, Brazil. 
A head of state is often, by virtue of holding the highest executive powers, explicitly designated as the commander-in-chief of that nation's armed forces, holding the highest office in all military chains of command.
In a constitutional monarchy or non-executive presidency, the head of state may de jure hold ultimate authority over the armed forces but will only normally, as per either written law or unwritten convention, exercise their authority on the advice of their responsible ministers: meaning that the de facto ultimate decision making on military maneuvers is made elsewhere. The head of state will, regardless of actual authority, perform ceremonial duties related to the country's armed forces, and will sometimes appear in military uniform for these purposes; particularly in monarchies where also the monarch's consort and other members of a royal family may also appear in military garb. This is generally the only time a head of state of a stable, democratic country will appear dressed in such a manner, as statesmen and public are eager to assert the primacy of (civilian, elected) politics over the armed forces.
In military dictatorships, or governments which have arisen from coups d'Atat, the position of commander-in-chief is obvious, as all authority in such a government derives from the application of military force; occasionally a power vacuum created by war is filled by a head of state stepping beyond his or her normal constitutional role, as King Albert I of Belgium did during World War I. In these and in revolutionary regimes, the head of state, and often executive ministers whose offices are legally civilian, will frequently appear in military uniform.
Example 1 (parliamentary monarchy): Article III, Section 15 of the Constitution Act, 1867, a part of the Constitution of Canada, states: The Command-in-Chief of the Land and Naval Militia, and of all Naval and Military Forces, of and in Canada, is hereby declared to continue to be vested in the Queen. [ 50 ] Example 2 (parliamentary monarchy): Article 25 of the Constitution of Norway states: The King is Commander-in-Chief of the land and naval forces of the Realm. These forces may not be increased or reduced without the consent of the Storting. They may not be transferred to the service of foreign powers, nor may the military forces of any foreign power, except auxiliary forces assisting against hostile attack, be brought into the Realm without the consent of the Storting. The territorial army and the other troops which cannot be classed as troops of the line must never, without the consent of the Storting, be employed outside the borders of the Realm. [ 51 ] Example 3 (parliamentary republic): Chapter II, Article 87, 4th section of the Constitution of Italy states: The President is the commander-in-chief of the armed forces, shall preside over the Supreme Council of Defense established by law, and shall make declarations of war as have been agreed by Parliament of Italy (Senato). Example 4 (semi-presidential republic): Title II, Article 15 of the French Constitution of 1958 states: The President of the Republic shall be Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. He shall preside over the higher national defence councils and committees. [ 37 ] Example 5 (semi-presidential republic): According to Chapter 4, Article 87, Section 1 of the Constitution of Russia: The President of the Russian Federation shall be the Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation. [ 29 ] Example 6 (presidential republic): Article II, Section 2 of the United States Constitution states: The President shall be Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, and of the Militia of the several States, when called into the actual Service of the United States. [ 36 ] Example 7 (executive monarchy): Article 65 of the Constitution of Qatar provides that: The Emir is the Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces. He shall supervise the same with the assistance of Defence Council under his direct authority. The said Council shall be constituted by an Emiri Resolution, which will also determine the functions thereof. [ 52 ] 
Some countries with a parliamentary system designate officials other than the head of state with command-in-chief powers.
In Germany, the Basic Law of the Federal Republic vests this authority in the Minister of Defence in normal peace-time (article 65a), and that command authority is transferred to the Federal Chancellor when a State of Defence is invoked (article 115b): something which has never happened so far. [ 43 ] , In Israel, the applicable basic law states that the ultimate authority over the Israel Defense Forces rests with the Government of Israel as a collective body. The authority of the Government is exercised by the Minister of Defense on behalf of the Government, and subordinate to the Minister is the Chief of General Staff who holds the highest level of command within the military. [ 53 ] , . 
Legislative roles [ edit ] 
Queen Elizabeth II arrives at the Palace of Westminster for the State Opening of Parliament. President Obama signing the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 into law; to his right is the new law's namesake, Lilly Ledbetter. Czar Nicholas II opening the First Duma, established under the Russian Constitution of 1906. 
It is usual that the head of state, particularly in parliamentary systems as part of the symbolic role, is the one who opens the annual sessions of the legislature, e.g. the annual State Opening of Parliament with the Speech from the Throne in Britain. Even in presidential systems the head of state often formally reports to the legislature on the present national status, e.g. the State of the Union address in the United States of America.
Most countries require that all bills passed by the house or houses of the legislature be signed into law by the head of state. In some states, such as the United Kingdom, Belgium and Ireland, the head of state is, in fact, formally considered a tier of the legislature. However, in most parliamentary systems, the head of state cannot refuse to sign a bill, and, in granting a bill their assent, indicate that it was passed in accordance with the correct procedures. The signing of a bill into law is formally known as promulgation . Some monarchical states call this procedure Royal Assent .
Example 1 (non-executive parliamentary monarchy): Chapter 1, Article 4 of the Swedish Riksdag Act provides that: The formal opening of a Riksdag session takes place at a special meeting of the Chamber held no later than the third day of the session. At this meeting, the Head of State declares the session open at the invitation of the Speaker. If the Head of State is unable to attend, the Speaker declares the session open. [ 54 ] Example 2 (parliamentary monarchy): Article 9 of the Constitution of the Principality of Liechtenstein provides that: Every law shall require the sanction of the Reigning Prince to attain legal force. [ 15 ] Example 3 (parliamentary republic): Section 11.a.1. of the Basic Laws of Israel states: The President of the State shall sign every Law, other than a Law relating to its powers. [ 55 ] Example 4 (semi-presidential republic): According to Chapter 4, Article 84 of the Constitution of the Russian Federation: The President of the Russian Federation: a) shall announce elections to the State Duma in accordance with the Constitution of the Russian Federation and federal law; c) shall announce referendums in accordance with the procedure established by federal constitutional law; d) shall submit draft laws to the State Duma; e) shall sign and promulgate federal laws; f) shall address the Federal Assembly with annual messages on the situation in the country and on the basic objectives of the internal and foreign policy of the State. [ 29 ] Example 5 (presidential republic): Article 1, Section 7 of the United States Constitution states: Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate, shall, before it become a Law, be presented to the President of the United States; If he approves he shall sign it, but if not he shall return it, with his Objections to that House in which it shall have originated... [ 36 ] Example 6 (presidential republic): Article 84 of the Brazilian Constitution provides that: The President of the Republic shall have the exclusive power to: III a start the legislative procedure, in the manner and in the cases set forth in this Constitution; IV - sanction, promulgate and order the publication of laws, as well as to issue decrees and regulations for the true enforcement thereof; V - veto bills, wholly or in part; XI - upon the opening of the legislative session, send a government message and plan to the National Congress, describing the state of the nation and requesting the actions he deems necessary; XXIII - submit to the National Congress the pluriannual plan, the bill of budgetary directives and the budget proposals set forth in this Constitution; XXIV - render, each year, accounts to the National Congress concerning the previous fiscal year, within sixty days of the opening of the legislative session . [ 35 ] Example 7 (ruling monarchy): Article 106 of the Constitution of Qatar states: 1. Any draft law passed by the Council shall be referred to the Emir for ratification. 2. If the Emir, declines to approve the draft law, he shall return it a long with the reasons for such declination to the Council within a period of three months from the date of referral. 3. In the event that a draft law is returned to the Council within the period specified in the preceding paragraph and the Council passes the same once more with a two-thirds majority of all its Members, the Emir shall ratify and promulgate it. The Emir may in compelling circumstances order the suspension of this law for the period that he deems necessary to serve the higher interests of the country. If, however, the draft law is not passed by a two-thirds majority, it shall not be reconsidered within the same term of session. [ 52 ] 
In some parliamentary systems, the head of state retains certain powers in relation to bills to be exercised at his or her discretion. They may have authority to veto a bill until the houses of the legislature have reconsidered it, and approved it a second time; reserve a bill to be signed later, or suspend it indefinitely (generally in states with royal prerogative; this power is rarely used); refer a bill to the courts to test its constitutionality; refer a bill to the people in a referendum.
If he or she is also chief executive, he or she can thus politically control the necessary executive measures without which a proclaimed law can remain dead letter, sometimes for years or even forever.
Summoning and dissolving the legislature [ edit ] 
The President of Ireland can dissolve the DAil Aireann (lower house of the Oireachtas) if the government has lost majority support in it. 
A head of state is often empowered to summon and dissolve the country's legislature. In most parliamentary systems, this is often done on the advice of the head of government. In some parliamentary systems, and in some presidential systems, however, the head of state may do so on their own initiative. Some states have fixed term legislatures, with no option of bringing forward elections (e.g. Article II, Section 3, of the U.S. Constitution [ 36 ] ). In other systems there are usually fixed terms, but the head of state retains authority to dissolve the legislature in certain circumstances. Where a head of government has lost support in the legislature, some heads of state may refuse a dissolution, where one is requested, thereby forcing the head of government's resignation.
Example 1 (parliamentary non-executive republic): Article 13.2.2. of the Constitution of Ireland states: The President may in absolute discretion refuse to dissolve DAil Aireann on the advice of a Taoiseach who has ceased to retain the support of a majority in DAil Aireann. [ 14 ] Example 2 (semi-presidential republic): Title II, Article 12, first sentence of the French Constitution of 1958 states: The President of the Republic may, after consulting the Prime Minister and the Presidents of the Houses of Parliament, declare the National Assembly dissolved. [ 37 ] Example 3 (semi-presidential republic): Chapter 4, article 84 of the Constitution of the Russian Federation provides: The President of the Russian Federation: b) shall dissolve the State Duma in the cases and in accordance with the procedure provided for by the Constitution of the Russian Federation; [ 29 ] 
Other prerogatives [ edit ] 
Granting nobility, knighthood and various titles and other honors [ edit ] 
The Order of St. Olav is the highest honor the Norwegian monarch may bestow. Example 1 (parliamentary monarchy): Article 113 of the Constitution of Belgium states: The King may confer titles of nobility, without ever having the power to attach privileges to them. [ 38 ] Example 2 (parliamentary monarchy): Article 23 of the Constitution of Norway states: The King may bestow orders upon whomever he pleases as a reward for distinguished services, and such orders must be publicly announced, but no rank or title other than that attached to any office. The order exempts no one from the common duties and burdens of citizens, nor does it carry with it any preferential admission to senior official posts in the State. Senior officials honorably discharged from office retain the title and rank of their office. This does not apply, however, to Members of the Council of State or the State Secretaries.
No personal, or mixed, hereditary privileges may henceforth be granted to anyone. [ 51 ] Example 3 (parliamentary republic): Title II, Article 87, 8th section of the Constitution of Italy states: The President shall confer the honorary distinctions of the Republic. [ 24 ] 
Immunity [ edit ] 
See also: Sovereign immunity and Immunity from prosecution (international law) Example 1 (parliamentary non-executive monarchy): Chapter 5, Article 8 of the Swedish Instrument of Government of 1974 states: The King or Queen who is Head of State cannot be prosecuted for his or her actions. Nor can a Regent be prosecuted for his or her actions as Head of State. [ 12 ] Example 2 (parliamentary monarchy): Article 5 of the Constitution of Norway states: The Kingas person is sacred; he cannot be censured or accused. The responsibility rests with his Council. [ 51 ] Example 3 (parliamentary republic): Chapter 3, Article 65 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic states: (1) President of the Republic may not be detained, subjected to criminal prosecution or prosecuted for offense or other administrative delict. (2) President of the Republic may be prosecuted for high treason at the Constitutional Court based on the Senate's suit. The punishment may be the loss of his presidential office and of his eligibility to regain it. (3) Criminal prosecution for criminal offenses committed by the President of the Republic while executing his office shall be ruled out forever. [ 56 ] Example 4 (semi-presidential republic): Title II, Chapter I, Article 130 of the Constitution of Portugal states: 1. The President of the Republic answers before the Supreme Court of Justice for crimes committed in the exercise of his functions. 2. Proceedings may only be initiated by the Assembly of the Republic, upon a motion subscribed by one fifth and a decision passed by a two-thirds majority of all the Members of the Assembly of the Republic in full exercise of their office. 3. Conviction implies removal from office and disqualification from re-election. 4. For crimes that are not committed in the exercise of his functions, the President of the Republic answers before the common courts, once his term of office has ended. [ 26 ] Example 5 (executive monarchy): Article 64 of the Constitution of Qatar: The Emir is the head of State. His person shall be inviolable and he must be respected by all. [ 52 ] 
Reserve Powers [ edit ] 
See also: reserve power Example 1 (semi-presidential republic): Title II, Article 16 of the French Constitution of 1958 states: Where the institutions of the Republic, the independence of the Nation, the integrity of its territory or the fulfilment of its international commitments are under serious and immediate threat, and where the proper functioning of the constitutional public authorities is interrupted, the President of the Republic shall take measures required by these circumstances, after formally consulting the Prime Minister, the Presidents of the Houses of Parliament and the Constitutional Council.
He shall address the Nation and inform it of such measures.
The measures shall be designed to provide the constitutional public authorities as swiftly as possible, with the means to carry out their duties. The Constitutional Council shall be consulted with regard to such measures.
Parliament shall sit as of right.
The National Assembly shall not be dissolved during the exercise of such emergency powers.
After thirty days of the exercise of such emergency powers, the matter may be referred to the Constitutional Council by the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Senate, sixty Members of the National Assembly or sixty Senators, so as to decide if the conditions laid down in paragraph one still apply. The Council shall make its decision publicly as soon as possible. It shall, as of right, carry out such an examination and shall make its decision in the same manner after sixty days of the exercise of emergency powers or at any moment thereafter. [ 37 ] Example 2 (executive monarchy): Articles 69 and 70 of the Constitution of Qatar: Article 69 The Emir may, be a decree, declare Martial Laws in the country in the event of exceptional cases specified by the law; and in such cases, he may take all urgent necessary measures to counter any threat that undermine the safety of the State, the integrity of its territories or the security of its people and interests or obstruct the organs of the State from performing their duties. However, the decree must specify the nature of such exceptional cases for which the martial laws have been declared and clarify the measures taken to address this situation. Al-Shoura Council shall be notified of this decree within the fifteen days following its issue; and in the event that the Council is not in session for any reason whatsoever, the Council shall be notified of the decree at its first convening. Martial laws shall be declared for a limited period and the same shall not be extended unless approved by Al-Shoura Council. Article 70 The Emir may, in the event of exceptional cases that require measures of utmost urgency which necessitate the issue of special laws and in case that Al-Shoura Council is not in session, issue pertinent decrees that have the power of law. Such decree-laws shall be submitted to Al-Shoura Council at its first meeting; and the Council may within a maximum period of forty days from the date of submission and with a two-thirds majority of its Members reject any of these decree-laws or request amendment thereof to be effected within a specified period of time; such decree-laws shall cease to have the power of law from the date of their rejection by the Council or where the period for effecting the amendments have expired. [ 52 ] 
Right of pardon [ edit ] 
See also: Pardon Example 1 (parliamentary monarchy): Section 24 of the Constitution of Denmark states: The King can grant pardons and amnesties. He may only pardon Ministers convicted by the Court of Impeachment with the consent of Parliament. [ 31 ] Example 2 (parliamentary republic): According to Chapter V, Article 60(2) of the Basic Law of the Federal Republic of Germany: He [The President] shall exercise the power to pardon individual offenders on behalf of the Federation. [ 43 ] Example 3 (semi-presidential republic): Title II, Article 17 of the French Constitution of 1958 states: The President of the Republic is vested with the power to grant individual pardons. [ 37 ] Example 4 (presidential republic): Article II, Section 2 of the Constitution of the United States provides that: ...and he [The President] shall have Power to grant Reprieves and Pardons for Offences against the United States, except in Cases of Impeachment. [ 36 ] Example 5 (presidential parliamentary republic): Part XI, Article 80 of the Constitution of Nauru: The President may- (a) grant a pardon, either free or subject to lawful conditions, to a person convicted of an offence; (b) grant to a person a respite, either indefinite or for a specified period, of the execution of a punishment imposed on that person for an offence; (c) substitute a less severe form of punishment for any punishment imposed on a person for an offence; or (d) remit the whole or a part of a punishment imposed on a person for an offence or of a penalty or forfeiture on account of an offence. [ 18 ] 
Selection and various types and styles of heads of state [ edit ] 
The frontispiece of Thomas Hobbes' Leviathan , depicting the Sovereign as a massive body wielding a sword and crozier and composed of many individual people. 
Various heads of state use a multitude of different styles and titles, often with many variations in content under diverse constitutions, even in a given state. In numerous cases, two or more of the following peculiar types apply, not counting the primary duo monarchy-republic. Although many constitutions (single or multiple documents), particularly from the 19th century and earlier make no explicit mention of a head of state in the generic sense of several contemporary international treaties, the officeholders corresponding to this position are recognized as such by other countries. [ 1 ] [ 8 ] 
In a monarchy, the monarch is generally understood to be the head of state. [ 57 ] NiccolA Machiavelli used Prince (Italian: Principe ) as a generic term for the ruler, similar to contemporary usage of head of state , in his classical treatise The Prince , originally published in 1532: in fact that particular literary genre it belongs to is known as Mirrors for princes. Thomas Hobbes in his Leviathan (1651) used the term Sovereign . In Europe the role of a monarchs has gradually transitioned from that of a sovereign rulerain the sense of Divine Right of Kings as articulated by Jean Bodin, Absolutism and the "L'etat c'est moi"ato that of a constitutional monarch; parallel with the conceptual evolution of sovereignty from merely the personal rule of a single person, to Westphalian sovereignty (Peace of Westphalia ending both the Thirty Years' War and Eighty Years' War) and popular sovereignty as in consent of the governed; as shown in the Glorious Revolution of 1688 in England and Scotland, the French Revolution in 1789, and the German Revolution of 1918a1919. The monarchies who survived through this era were the ones who were willing to subject themselves to constitutional limitations. Titles commonly used by monarchs are King/Queen or Emperor/Empress, but also many other; e.g. Grand Duke, Prince, Emir and Sultan.
In a republic, the head of state nowadays usually bears the title of President, and usually their permanent constitutions provide for election, but many have or had other titles and even specific constitutional positions and some have used simply "head of state" as their only formal title.
There are also several methods of head of state succession in the event of the removal, disability or death of an incumbent head of state.
Shared and substitute heads of state [ edit ] 
Interim [ edit ] 
Whenever a head of state is not available for any reason, constitutional provisions may allow the role to fall temporarily to an assigned person or collective body. In a republic, this is - depending on provisions outlined by the constitution or improvised - a vice-president, the chief of government, the legislature or its presiding officer. In a monarchy, this is usually a regent or collegial regency (council). For example, in the United States the Vice-President acts when the President is incapacitated, and in the United Kingdom the Queen's powers may be delegated to Counselors of State when she is abroad or unavailable.
Representation [ edit ] 
Two governors-general from different eras and different realms:
The Lord Tweedsmuir (left) was Governor General of Canada from 1935 to 1940; the uniform worn was the customary ceremonial dress uniform for governors general
Sir Paulias Matane (right) was Governor-General of Papua New Guinea from 2004 to 2010 
In some nations, such as Andorra and New Zealand, there is no resident head of state, and a local representative is appointed. In the Commonwealth realms, other than the United Kingdom, a governor-general is appointed by the sovereign, on the advice of the relevant prime minister, as a representative and to exercise almost all the royal prerogative according to established constitutional authority, even when the sovereign is present in the country concerned (though this does not necessarily mean an abdication of the sovereign's powers and privileges as prescribed by the local constitution [ 58 ] [ 59 ] ). At the United Nations, governors-general are accorded the status of head of state. [ 1 ] There is an ongoing debate in Australia and, to a lesser extent, in Canada as to which officeholderathe monarch, the governor(-)general, or bothacan be considered the head of state. [ 60 ] In the case of Andorra, two co-princes act as the principality's heads of state; one is also simultaneously the President of France, residing in France, and the other is the Bishop of Urgell, residing in Spain. Each co-prince is represented in Andorra by a delegate, though these persons hold no formal title.
As a colony or other dependent state or territory lacks the authority to vest in a true head of state of its own, it either has no comparable office, simply receiving those roles exercised by the paramount powers (in person or, most of the time, through an appointed representative, often styled governor or lieutenant-governor, but also various other titles, on the Cook Islands even simply King/Queen's Representative) or has one, such as a formerly sovereign dynasty, but under a form of metropolitan guardianship, such as protection, vassal or tributary status.
Extraordinary arrangements [ edit ] 
In exceptional situations, such as war, occupation, revolution or a coup d'Atat, constitutional institutions, including the symbolically crucial head of state, may be reduced to a figurehead or be suspended in favor of an emergency office (such as the original Roman Dictator) or eliminated by a new "provisionary" regime, such as a collective of the junta type, or removed by an occupying force, such as a military governor (an early example being the Spartan Harmost). [ citation needed ] 
Religious heads of state [ edit ] 
Francis, the 266th Pope. 
Since antiquity, various dynasties or individual rulers have claimed the right to rule by divine authority, such as the Mandate of Heaven and the divine right of kings. Some monarchs even claimed divine ancestry, such as Egyptian pharaohs and Sapa Incas, who claimed descent from their respective sun gods and often sought to maintain this bloodline by practicing incestuous marriage. In Ancient Rome, during the Principate, the title divus ('divine') was conferred (notably posthumously) on the emperor, a symbolic, legitimating element in establishing a de facto dynasty.
Christianity [ edit ] 
In Roman Catholicism, the Pope was once Sovereign Pontiff and head of state, first, of the politically important Papal States. After Italian unification, the Pope remains head of state of Vatican City. In the Church of England, the reigning monarch holds the title Defender of the Faith and acts as Supreme Governor of the Church of England, although this is purely symbolic role.
Islam [ edit ] 
Abdulmecid II is the 150th and last Caliph of Islam from Ottoman dynasty 
During the early period of Islam, caliphs were spiritual and temporal absolute successors of the Prophet Mohammed. Various political Muslim leaders since have styled themselves Caliph and served as dynastic heads of state, sometimes in addition to another title, such as the Ottoman Sultan. Historically, some theocratic Islamic states known as imamates have been led by imams as head of state, such as in what is now Oman, Yemen, and Saudi Arabia.
In the modern Islamic Republic of Iran the rahbar (Supreme Leader, at present Ali Khamenei) serves as head of state. The Aga Khans, a unique dynasty of temporal/religious leadership, leading an offshoot of Shia Islam in Central and South Asia, once ranking among British India's princely states, continue to the present day.
Hinduism [ edit ] 
In Hinduism, certain dynasties adopted a title expressing their positions as "servant" of a patron deity of the state, but in the sense of a viceroy under an absentee god-king, ruling "in the name of" the patron god(ess), such as Patmanabha Dasa (servant of Vishnu) in the case of the Maharaja of Travancore.
Buddhism [ edit ] 
Some Dalai Lamas were both political and spiritual leaders ("god-king") of Tibet in Imperial China.
Outer Mongolia, the former homeland of the imperial dynasty of Genghis Khan, was another lamaist theocracy from 1585, using various styles, such as tulku. The establishment of the Communist Mongolian People's Republic replaced this regime in 1924.
City states and crowned republics [ edit ] 
The polis in Greek Antiquity and the equivalent city states in the feudal era and later, (many in Italy, the Holy Roman Empire, the Moorish taifa in Iberia, essentially tribal-type but urbanized regions throughout the world in the Maya civilization, etc.) offer a wide spectrum of styles, either monarchic (mostly identical to homonyms in larger states) or republican, see Chief magistrate., Doges were elected by their Italian aristocratic republics from a patrician nobility, but "reigned" as sovereign dukes., The paradoxical term crowned republic refers to various state arrangements that combine "republican" and "monarchic" characteristics., The Netherlands historically had officials called stadholders and stadholders-general, titles meaning "lieutenant" or "governor", originally for the Habsburg monarchs., . 
Multiple or collective heads of state [ edit ] 
The 2014 Swiss Federal Council, the seven-member collective Head of State of the Swiss Confederation (the Federal Chancellor is also depicted, at the right) 
A collective head of state can exist in republics (internal complexity): e.g. nominal triumvirates; the Directoire; the seven-member Swiss Federal Council, where each member acts in turn as ceremonial chief of state); Bosnia and Herzegovina (three member presidium, from three different nations); San Marino (two "Captains-regent"), which maintains the tradition of Italian medieval republics, where there always was an even number of consuls.
In condominiums, sovereignty is shared between two external powers: e.g. Andorra (president of France and bishop of Urgell, Spain, co-princes), and the former Anglo-French New Hebrides (each nation's head of state was represented by a high commissioner).
In the Roman Republic there were two heads of state, styled Consul, both of whom alternated months of authority during their year in office, similarly there was an even number of supreme magistrates in the Italic republics of Ancient Age. In the Athenian Republic there were nine supreme magistrates, styled archons. In Carthage there were two supreme magistrates, styled kings or suffetes (judges). In ancient Sparta there were two hereditary kings, belonging to two different dynasties.
Such arrangements are not to be confused with supranational entities which are not states and are not defined by a common monarchy but may (or not) have a symbolic, essentially protocollary, titled highest office, e.g. Head of the Commonwealth (held by the British crown, but not legally reserved for it) or 'Head of the Arab Union' (14 February - 14 July 1958, held by the Hashemite King of Iraq, during its short-lived Federation with Jordan, its Hashemite sister-realm).
Unique cases and titles [ edit ] 
Though "president" and various monarchic titles are most commonly used for heads of state, in some nationalistic regimes (usually republics), the leader adopts, formally or de facto, a unique style simply meaning "leader" in the national language, such as Nazi Germany's single party chief and head of state and government, Adolf Hitler FAhrer (see that article for equivalents).
In 1959, when former British crown colony Singapore gained self-government, it adopted the Malay style Yang di-Pertuan Negara (literally means "head of state" in Malay) for its governor (the actual head of state remained the British monarch). The second and last incumbent of the office, Yusof bin Ishak, kept the style at the 31 August 1963 unilateral declaration of independence and after the 16 September 1963 accession to Malaysia as a state (so now as a constitutive part of the federation, a non-sovereign level). After expulsion from Malaysia on 9 August 1965, Singapore became a sovereign Commonwealth republic and installed Yusof bin Ishak as its first President.
In 1959 after the resignation of Vice President of Indonesia Mohammad Hatta, President Sukarno abolished the position and title of Vice-President, assuming the positions of Prime Minister and Head of Cabinet. He also proclaimed himself president for life (Indonesian: Presiden Seumur Hidup Panglima Tertinggi ; " Panglima " meaning "commander or martial figurehead", " Tertinggi " meaning "highest"; roughly translated to English as "Supreme Commander of the Revolution"). He was praised as " Paduka Yang Mulia ", a Malay honorific originally given to kings; Sukarno awarded himself titles in that fashion due to his noble ancestry.
Picture from 2010, celebrating the end of Japanese occupation of Korea in 1945, featuring North Korea's founding father the late Kim Il-sung, Eternal President of the Republic , (left) and his son the then-leader Kim Jong-il (right). 
There are also a few nations in which the exact title and definition of the office of head of state have been vague. During the Cultural Revolution, following the downfall of Liu Shaoqi, who was Chairman of the People's Republic of China, no successor was named, so the duties of the head of state were transferred collectively to the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress. This situation was later changed: the Head of State of the PRC is now the President of the People's Republic of China.
In North Korea, Kim Il-sung was named "eternal president" following his death and the presidency was abolished. As a result, the duties of the head of state are constitutionally delegated to the Supreme People's Assembly whose chairman is "Head of State for foreign affairs" and performs some of the roles of a Head of State, such as accrediting foreign ambassadors. However, the symbolic role of a Head of State is generally performed by Kim Jong-un, who as the leader of the party and military, is the most powerful person in North Korea.
There is debate as to whether Samoa is/was an elective monarchy or an aristocratic republic, given the comparative ambiguity of the title O le Ao o le Malo and the nature of the head of state's office.
In some states the office of head of state is not expressed in a specific title reflecting that role, but constitutionally awarded to a post of another formal nature. Thus in March 1979 Colonel Muammar Gaddafi, who kept absolute power (until his overthrow in 2011 referred to as "Guide of the Revolution"), after ten years as combined Head of State and Head of government of the Libyan Jamahiriya ("state of the masses"), styled Chairman of the Revolutionary Command Council, formally transferred both qualities to the General secretaries of the General People's Congress (comparable to a Speaker) respectively to a Prime Minister, in political reality both were his creatures.
Sometimes a head of state assumes office as a state becomes legal and political reality, before a formal title for the highest office is determined; thus in the since 1 January 1960 independent republic Cameroon ( Cameroun , a former French colony), the first President, Ahmadou Babatoura Ahidjo, was at first not styled prAsident but 'merely' known as Chef d'Atat (literal French for 'Chief of State') until 5 May 1960; in Uganda, military coup leader since 25 January 1971 Idi Amin was formally styled military head of State till 21 February 1971, only from then on regular (but unconstitutional, not elected) President.
In certain cases a special style is needed to accommodate imperfect statehood, e.g. the title Sardar-i-Riyasat was used in Kashmir after its accession to India, and PLO-leader Yasser Arafat was styled the first "President of the Palestinian National Authority" in 1994.
Legitimacy [ edit ] 
The position of head of state can be established in different ways, and with different sources of legitimacy.
By fiction or fiat [ edit ] 
Power can come from force, but formal legitimacy is often established, even if only by fictitious claims of continuity (e.g., a forged claim of descent from a previous dynasty). There have been cases of sovereignty granted by deliberate act, even when accompanied by laws of succession (as may be the case in a dynastic split). [ clarification needed ] Such grants of sovereignty are usually forced, as is common with self-determination granted after nationalist revolts. This occurred with the last Attalid king of Hellenistic Pergamon, who by testament left his realm to Rome to avoid a disastrous conquest.
By divine appointment [ edit ] 
Under a theocracy, perceived divine status translated into earthly authority under divine law This can take the form of supreme divine authority above the state's, granting a tool for political influence to a priesthood. In this way, the Amun priesthood reversed the reforms of Pharaoh Akhenaten after his death. The division of theocratic power can be disputed, as happened between the Pope and Holy Roman Emperor in the Investiture conflict when the temporal power sought to control key clergy nominations in order to guarantee popular support, and thereby his own legitamcy, by incorporating the formal ceremony of unction during coronation.
By social contract [ edit ] 
The notion of a social contract holds that the nationaeither the whole people or the electorateagives a mandate, through acclamation or election.
By constitution [ edit ] 
Individual heads of state may acquire their position by virtue of a constitution.
By hereditary succession [ edit ] 
Four generations of Danish kings in 1903: King Christian IX (left), Christian (X) (back), Frederick (VIII) (right), and Frederick (IX) (front). 
The position of a monarch is usually hereditary, but in constitutional monarchies, there are usually restrictions on the incumbent's exercise of powers and prohibitions on the possibility of choosing a successor by other means than by birth. In a hereditary monarchy, the position of monarch is inherited according to a statutory or customary order of succession, usually within one royal family tracing its origin through a historical dynasty or bloodline. This usually means that the heir to the throne is known well in advance of becoming monarch to ensure a smooth succession. However, many cases of uncertain succession in European history have often led to wars of succession.
Primogeniture, in which the eldest child of the monarch is first in line to become monarch, is the most common system in hereditary monarchy. The order of succession is usually affected by rules on gender. Historically "agnatic primogeniture" or "patrilineal primogeniture" was favoured, that is inheritance according to seniority of birth among the sons of a monarch or head of family, with sons and their male issue inheriting before brothers and their issue, and male-line males inheriting before females of the male line. [ 61 ] This is the same as semi-Salic primogeniture. Complete exclusion of females from dynastic succession is commonly referred to as application of the Salic law (see Terra salica ).
Before primogeniture was enshrined in European law and tradition, kings would often secure the succession by having their successor (usually their eldest son) crowned during their own lifetime, so for a time there would be two kings in coregency a a senior king and a junior king. Examples include Henry the Young King of England and the early Direct Capetians in France.
Sometimes, however, primogeniture can operate through the female line. In some systems a female may rule as monarch only when the male line dating back to a common ancestor is exhausted. In 1980, Sweden, by rewriting its 1810 Act of Succession, became the first European monarchy to declare equal (full cognatic) primogeniture, meaning that the eldest child of the monarch, whether female or male, ascends to the throne. [ 62 ] Other European monarchies (such as the Netherlands in 1983, Norway in 1990, Belgium in 1991) have since followed suit. Similar reforms were proposed in 2011 for the United Kingdom and the other Commonwealth realms, but have yet to pass into law, pending approval by all of the affected nations. Sometimes religion is affected; under the Act of Settlement 1701 all Roman Catholics and all persons who have married Roman Catholics are ineligible to be the British monarch and are skipped in the order of succession.
In some monarchies there may be liberty for the incumbent, or some body convening after his or her demise, to choose from eligible members of the ruling house, often limited to legitimate descendants of the dynasty's founder. Rules of succession may be further limited by state religion, residency, equal marriage or even permission from the legislature.
Other hereditary systems of succession included tanistry, which is semi-elective and gives weight to merit and Agnatic seniority. In some monarchies, such as Saudi Arabia, succession to the throne usually first passes to the monarch's next eldest brother, and only after that to the monarch's children (agnatic seniority).
By election [ edit ] 
Election usually is the constitutional way to choose the head of state of a republic, and some monarchies, either directly through popular election, indirectly by members of the legislature or of a special college of electors (such as the Electoral College in the United States), or as an exclusive prerogative. Exclusive prerogative allows the heads of states of constituent monarchies of a federation to choose the head of state for the federation among themselves, as in the United Arab Emirates and Malaysia. The Pope, head of state of Vatican City, is chosen by previously appointed cardinals under 80 years of age from among themselves in a papal conclave.
By appointment [ edit ] 
A head of state can be empowered to designate his successor, such as Lord Protector of the Commonwealth Oliver Cromwell, who was succeeded by his son Richard.
By force or revolution [ edit ] 
A head of state may seize power by force or revolution. This is not the same as the use of force to maintain power, as is practiced by authoritarian or totalitarian rulers. Dictators often use democratic titles, though some proclaim themselves monarchs. Examples of the latter include Emperor Napoleon III of France and King Zog of Albania. In Spain, general Francisco Franco adopted the formal title Jefe del Estado , or Chief of State, and established himself as regent for a vacant monarchy. Uganda's Idi Amin was one of several who named themselves President for Life.
By foreign imposition [ edit ] 
A foreign power can establishing a branch of their own dynasty, or one friendly to their interests. This was the outcome of the Russo-Swedish War from 1741 to 1743 where the Russian Empress made the imposition of her relative Adolf Frederick as the heir to the Swedish Throne, to succeed Frederick I who lacked legitimate issue, as a peace condition.
Loss [ edit ] 
Apart from violent overthrow, a head of state's position can be lost in several ways, including death, another by expiration of the constitutional term of office, abdication, or resignation. In some cases, an abdication cannot occur unilaterally, but comes into effect only when approved by an act of parliament, as in the case of British King Edward VIII. The post can also be abolished by constitutional change; in such cases, an incumbent may be allowed to finish his or her term. Of course, a head of state position will cease to exist if the state itself does.
Heads of state generally enjoy widest inviolability, although some states allow impeachment, or a similar constitutional procedure by which the highest legislative or judicial authorities are empowered to revoke the head of state's mandate on exceptional grounds. This may be a common crime, a political sin, or an act by which he or she violates such provisions as an established religion mandatory for the monarch. By similar procedure, an original mandate may be declared invalid.
Serious violations of certain fundamental treaty obligations is sometimes considered a valid reason for the relevant international community to depose a head of state, as the United Nations Security Council or certain alliances may do.
Former heads of state [ edit ] 
Puyi, the last emperor of China, abdicated from the throne in 1912, and was briefly restored in 1917, but was allowed to keep his titles and palace until 1924. He worked as a gardener in his later life as an ordinary Chinese citizen in Communist China. 
A monarch may retain his style and certain prerogatives after abdication, as did King Leopold III of Belgium, who left the throne to his son after winning a referendum which allowed him to retain a full royal household deprived him of a constitutional or representative role. Napoleon transformed the Italian principality of Elba, where he was imprisoned, into a miniature version of his First Empire, with most trappings of a sovereign monarchy, until his Cent Jours escape and reseizure of power in France convinced his opponents, reconvening the Vienna Congress in 1815, to revoke his gratuitous privileges and send him to die in exile on barren Saint Helena.
By tradition, deposed monarchs who have not freely abdicated continue to use their monarchical titles as a courtesy for the rest of their lives. Hence, even after Constantine II ceased to be King of the Hellenes , it is still common to refer to the deposed king and his family as if they were still on the throne, as many European royal courts and households do in guest lists at royal weddings, as in Sweden in 2010, Britain in 2011 and Luxembourg in 2012. [ 63 ] [ 64 ] [ 65 ] The Republic of Greece oppose the right of their deposed monarch and former royal family members to be referred to by their former titles or bearing a surname indicating royal status, and has enacted legislation which hinder acquisition of Greek citizenship unless those terms are met. The former king brought this issue, along with property ownership issues, before the European Court of Human Rights for alleged violations of the European Convention on Human Rights, but lost with respect to the name issue. [ 66 ] [ 67 ] 
However, some other states have no problem with deposed monarchs being referred to by their former title, and even allow them to travel internationally on the state's diplomatic passport.
Former Presidents of the United States, while holding no political powers per se, sometimes continue to exert influence in national and world affairs.
In the Italian constitution provides that after the period sent the President of the Republic takes the titiolo President Emeritus of the Italian Republic is also a senator for life, and enjoys immunity, flight status and official residences certain privileges.
See also [ edit ] 
21-gun salute, Aide-de-camp, Air transports of heads of state and government, Bodyguard, Cult of personality, Honors music, Leadership, Mirrors for princes, National day of mourning, Oath of allegiance, Oath of office, Official residence, Official state car, Power behind the throne, Sacred king, State funeral, Strongman (politics), . 
Lists: 
List of state leaders by year, List of current heads of state and government, List of heads of state by diplomatic precedence, List of longest reigning current monarchs, Records of heads of state, World Leaders , . 
Notes [ edit ] 
^ Meant primarily in the strict protocol sense (i.e. order of precedence, seating arrangements, etc.); not necessarily in terms of actual power or influence. , ^ Even in such systems, one or two of the members discharges the representational responsibilities a single-person head of state would carry out, as can observed in the UN protocol list. , References [ edit ] 
^ a b c d e f g h HEADS OF STATE, HEADS OF GOVERNMENT, MINISTERS FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS, Protocol and Liaison Service, United Nations (2012-10-19). Retrieved on 2012-11-01. , ^ Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties 1969, International Law Commission, United Nations. Retrieved on 2012-10-15. , ^ Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Crimes against Internationally Protected Persons, including Diplomatic Agents 1973, International Law Commission, United Nations. Retrieved on 2012-10.23. , ^ Germany in The World Factbook, Central Intelligence Agency. Retrieved on 2012-10-23. , ^ United Kingdom in The World Factbook, Central Intelligence Agency. Retrieved on 2012-10-23. , ^ Brazil in The World Factbook, Central Intelligence Agency. Retrieved on 2012-10-23. , ^ United States in The World Factbook, Central Intelligence Agency. Retrieved on 2012-10-23. , ^ a b c d Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations 1961, International Law Commission, United Nations. Retrieved on 2012-10-15. , ^ The citation in French is taken from Charles de Gaulle, MAmoires de guerre, tome 1, Plon, 1954 , ^ a b c The Constitution of Japan, Office of the Prime Minister. Retrieved on 2012-11-02. , ^ Japan in The World Factbook, Central Intelligence Agency. Retrieved on 2012-11-11. , ^ a b c d The Instrument of Government, Riksdag of Sweden. Retrieved on 2012-11-02. , ^ Duties of the Monarch, Royal Court of Sweden. Retrieved on 2012-11-01. , ^ a b c d Constitution of Ireland, Office of the Attorney General (December 2013). Retrieved 2014-08-03. , ^ a b c Constitution of the Principality of Liechtenstein (LR 101) (2009). Retrieved on 2014-08-03. , ^ Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996, Department of Justice and Constitutional Development (2009). Retrieved on 2014-08-03. , ^ Constitution of Botswana, Embassy of the Republic of Botswana in Washington DC. Retrieved on 2012-11-11. , ^ a b THE CONSTITUTION OF NAURU, Parliament of Nauru. Retrieved on 2012-11-11. , ^ "The Crown in Canada" (PDF). Department of Canadian Heritage . Retrieved 2014-08-031 . Check date values in: accessdate= (help) , ^ The Queen's role in Canada, Royal Household. Retrieved on 2012-11-02. , ^ Olympic Charter: in force as of 8 July 2011, International Olympic Committee (July 2011). Retrieved on 2012-11-12. , ^ SPANISH CONSTITUTION, Senate of Spain. Retrieved on 2012-11-02. , ^ Constitution Act 1986, New Zealand Parliamentary Counsel Office. Retrieved on 2013-08-28. , ^ a b Constitution of the Italian Republic, Senate of the Republic. Retrieved on 2012-11-02. , ^ Constitution of Iraq. Retrieved 2014-08-03. , ^ a b CONSTITUTION OF THE PORTUGUESE REPUBLIC: SEVENTH REVISION (2005), Portuguese Constitutional Court. Retrieved on 2012-11-02. , ^ a b THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA, Constitutional Court of Korea. Retrieved on 2012-11-02. , ^ The Constitution of the Republic of Lithuania, Seimas. Retrieved on 2012-11-02 , ^ a b c d e f Constitution of the Russian Federation, Government of the Russian Federation. Retrieved on 2012-11-02. , ^ a b CONSTITUTION OF THE ARGENTINE NATION, Argentine Senate. Retrieved on 2012-11-16. , ^ a b My Constitutional Act with explanations, 9th edition, The Communications Section, Danish Parliament (August 2012). Retrieved on 2012-11-11. , ^ The Constitution as in force on 1 June 2003 together with proclamation declaring the establishment of the Commonwealth, letters patent relating to the Office of Governor-General, Statute of Westminster Adoption Act 1942, Australia Act 1986., ComLaw, Government of Australia (2003) ISBN 0 642 78285 7. Retrieved on 2012-11-11. , ^ The Constitution, Publications Department, Hellenic Parliament (2008) ISBN 960 560 073 0. Retrieved on 2012-11-11. , ^ Constitution of India, Part V, Ministry of Law and Justice. Retrieved on 2012-11-11. , ^ a b c Constitution of the Federative Republic of Brazil: 3rd Edition, Chamber of Deputies (2010) ISBN 978-85-736-5737-1. Retrieved on 2012-11-13. , ^ a b c d e f Constitution of the United States, National Archives and Records Administration. Retrieved on 2012-11-11. , ^ a b c d e f Constitution of October 4, 1958, The French National Assembly. Retrieved on 2012-11-11. , ^ a b THE BELGIAN CONSTITUTION, Legal Department, Belgian House of Representatives (August 2012). Retrieved on 2012-11-11. , ^ "Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations". United Nations Treaty Collection . United Nations . Retrieved 2012-11-16 . , ^ The preambles of treaties constituting the European Union is a noteworthy case in point. , ^ Treaty of Lisbon (OJ C 306, 17.12.2007), Official Journal of the European Union through EUR-Lex. Retrieved on 2012-11-01. , ^ TREATY ON EUROPEAN UNION (92/C 191/01) aka Maastricht Treaty, Official Journal of the European Union through EUR-Lex. Retrieved on 2012-11-11. , ^ a b c Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany, Bundestag (Print version. As at: October 2010). Retrieved on 2012-11-11. , ^ Constitution of China, Chinese Government's Official Web portal. Retrieved 2012-11-02. , ^ Alston, Philip (1995). Treaty-making and Australia: globalization versus sovereignty? . Annandale: Federation Press. p.254. ISBN978-1-86287-195-3. , ^ Bayefsky, Anne F. (1993), "International Human Rights Law in Canadian Courts", in Kaplan, William; McRae, Donald Malcolm; Cohen, Maxwell, Law, policy and international justice: essays in honour of Maxwell Cohen , Montreal: McGill-Queen's Press, p.112, ISBN978-0-7735-1114-9 , retrieved 16 January 2011 , ^ Flemming, Brian (1965). "Canadian Practice in International Law". The Canadian Yearbook of International Law (Vancouver: University of British Columbia Press) III : 337 . Retrieved 16 January 2011 . , ^ a b George VI (1 October 1947), Letters Patent Constituting the Office of Governor General of Canada , I, Ottawa: King's Printer for Canada , retrieved 29 May 2009 , ^ Office of the Governor General of Canada. "The Governor General - the evolution of Canada's oldest public institution". Queen's Printer for Canada . Retrieved 16 January 2011 . , ^ Constitution Act, 1867 , ^ a b c The Constitution, as laid down on 17 May 1814 by the Constituent Assembly at Eidsvoll and subsequently amended., Information Service, Parliament of Norway. Retrieved on 2012-11-11. , ^ a b c d Constitution of the State of Qatar, Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Retrieved on 2012-11-17. , ^ Basic Law of Israel: The Military, Knesset. Retrieved on 2011-11-11. , ^ The Riksdag Act, Riksdag of Sweden. Retrieved on 2012-11-16. , ^ Basic Law of Israel: The President of the State, Knesset. Retrieved on 2012-11-11. , ^ Constitution of the Czech Republic, Prague Castle Administration. Retrieved on 2012-11-11. , ^ Robertson, David (2002). A Dictionary of Modern Politics: Third Edition. London: Europa Publications. p. 221. ISBN 1-85743-093-X , ^ Heard, Andrew (1990). "Canadian Independence". Vancouver: Simon Fraser University . Retrieved 25 August 2010 . Missing or empty title= (help) , ^ Elizabeth II (1 January 1987), Constitution Act 1986 , Wellington: Queen's Printer, p.3(1) , retrieved 1 January 2013 , ^ Dusevic, Tom (12 February 2010), Queen takes on Bryce in right royal title fight , The Australian , retrieved 22 January 2011 , ^ Murphy, Michael Dean. "A Kinship Glossary: Symbols, Terms, and Concepts" . Retrieved 2006-10-05 . , ^ Swedish Act of Succession (English Translation as of 2012), The Riksdag. Retrieved on 2013-08-28. , ^ Guests at the wedding ceremony: Wedding between Crown Princess Victoria and Mr Daniel Westling on Saturday 19 June 2010, 3.30 p.m., at Stockholm Cathedral, Royal Court of Sweden. Retrieved on 2012-11-12. , ^ Selected Guest List for the Wedding Service at Westminster Abbey, The Royal Household (2011). Retrieved on 2012-11-12. , ^ Selected guest list for the wedding service at CathAdrale Notre-Dame de Luxembourg on October 20, 2012 at 11:00 a.m., Government of Luxembourg. Retrieved on 2012-11-12. , ^ THE FORMER KING CONSTANTINOS OF GREECE AND 8 MEMBERS OF HIS FAMILY v. GREECE, (25701/94 DECISION COMMISSION (Plenary) 21/04/1998) European Commission of Human Rights. Retrieved on 2012-11-12. , ^ CASE OF THE FORMER KING OF GREECE AND OTHERS v. GREECE, (25701/94 Judgment (Merits) Court (Grand Chamber) 23/11/2000), European Court of Human Rights. Retrieved on 2012-11-12. , Bibliography [ edit ] 
Westermann, GroAer Atlas zur Weltgeschichte (in German), . 
External links [ edit ] 
, Look up head of state in Wiktionary, the free dictionary., Wikimedia Commons has media related to Heads of state ., List of Current Heads of State, Pauly-Wissowa in German, on Antiquity, Rulers.org List of rulers throughout time and places, WorldStatesmen History and incumbents of states and minor polities worldwide, RoyalArk quite elaborate on many non-European monarchies, . Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Head_of_state and oldid=632072166" Categories: Government institutions, Heads of state, Monarchy, Positions of authority, Air transport of heads of state, . Hidden categories: CS1 errors: dates, Pages with citations lacking titles, Articles containing French-language text, Articles needing additional references from November 2012, All articles needing additional references, Articles containing Japanese-language text, Articles containing Italian-language text, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from December 2007, Articles containing non-English-language text, Wikipedia articles needing clarification from May 2012, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
Afrikaans, OUOOOUO, Asturianu, AzErbaycanca, BAn-lAm-gA, DDDDNNNDDN, DNDDDNNDD, Boarisch, DNNNDD, CatalA, DODDNDD, AeAtina, Dansk, Deutsch, Eesti, EspaAol, Esperanto, Euskara, UOOOU, FranAais, Galego, iei, OOOOOOO, Hrvatski, Ido, Bahasa Indonesia, Aslenska, Italiano, DNDNDNDD-DDDDNDN, ODDDOND, Kiswahili, Latina, LatvieAu, LietuviA, Limburgs, LingAla, Magyar, aaaaaa, aaaaa, UOOU, Bahasa Melayu, DDDDDD, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, Nouormand, Occitan, PlattdAAtsch, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, Sicilianu, aaaaa, Simple English, SlovenAina, SlovenAAina, DNDNDD / srpski, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Suomi, Svenska, Tagalog, aaaaa, aaa, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, VAneto, Tiang Viat, ce, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 1 November 2014 at 23:21.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
