
Politics of India - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of India 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Republic of India , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
India , Union Government Constitution of India, Fundamental rights, . 
Executive: 
President, Vice President, Prime Minister, Cabinet of India, . 
Parliament: 
Rajya Sabha, Lok Sabha, The Chairman, The Speaker, . 
Judiciary: 
Supreme Court of India, Chief Justice of India, High Courts, District Courts, . , Elections Election Commission: Chief Election Commissioner, . , Political parties National parties, State parties, . 
National coalitions: 
Left Front, National Democratic Alliance (NDA), United Progressive Alliance (UPA), . , Local and state govt. Governor, Chief Minister, . 
Vidhan Sabha, Vidhan Parishad, Panchayat, Gram panchayat, Panchayat samiti, Zilla Parishad, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Government of India portal 
, v , t , e , . , Parliament of India. 
Politics in India (Hindi:aaaaaa aaaaaaa) takes place within the framework of a constitution. India is a federal parliamentary democratic republic in which the President of India is head of state and the Prime Minister of India is the head of government. India follows the dual polity, i.e. double government which consists of the union at the centre and states at the periphery. The constitution defines the organisation, powers and limitations of both central and state governments, it is written, rigid and supreme, i.e. laws of the nation must conform to it. There is provision for a bicameral legislature consisting of an Upper House, i.e. Rajya Sabha, which represent the states of the Indian federation and a lower house i.e. Lok Sabha, that represents the people of India as a whole. Indian constitution provides for an independent Judiciary headed by the Supreme Court to adhere and protect the constitution and to settle disputes between the centre and the states or between the states, it can also nullify any central or state laws if they are against the constitution. [ 1 ] 
The governments, union or state, are formed through elections held every five years (unless otherwise specified), by having the majority of members in their respective lower houses (Lok Sabha in centre and Vidhan Sabha in states). India had its first general election in 1951, which was dominated by Indian National Congress, and went on to dominate the successive elections, up till 1977, when the first non-Congress government was formed for the first time in independent India. The 1990s saw the end of Single Party domination and rise of Coalition Governments. The elections for 16th Lok Sabha held in April and May 2014 once again brought back single-party rule in the country, that of the Bharatiya Janata Party. [ 2 ] 
Contents
1 Political parties and alliances 1.1 Features of political parties in India , 1.2 Types of political parties , 1.3 Alliances , . , 2 Local governance , 3 Role of political parties , 4 Political issues 4.1 Social issues , 4.2 Economic issues , 4.3 Law and order , . , 5 See also , 6 References , 7 Further reading , 8 External links , . 
Political parties and alliances [ edit ] 
For other political parties see List of political parties in India. An overview on elections and election results is included in Elections in India. Main articles: Indian general election, 2009 and Indian general election, 2014 
Features of political parties in India [ edit ] 
As compared to other democratic countries India has a large number of political parties, it has been estimated that over 200 parties were formed after India became independent in 1947. [ 3 ] 
One feature of the political parties in India is that the parties are generally woven around their leaders, the leaders actively playing a dominant role, the role of leadership can be transferred and tends to take dynastic route. Such parties include both national and regional parties, parties such as Indian National Congress(INC) has been led by Nehru-Gandhi dynasty since independence, starting from Jawaharlal Nehru who dominated the INC and led it to victory in three consecutive elections. After a brief interlude of the prime ministership of Lal Bahadur Shastri, Nehru's daughter, Indira Gandhi became prime minister. After the split in the Congress party in 1969 she formed her own Indian National congress (Ruling). After a further split, she formed the Congress (Indira) or Congress(I). Indira remained the leader of the party until her death in 1984, when her son Rajiv Gandhi took the reigns and after his death his widow Sonia Gandhi, the current leader of INC took command. [ 4 ] As a result of such dominance, the leaders of political parties of the country tend to take an autocratic tone.
One other major feature of the political parties is that, except the communist parties, most of the political parties of India lack an ideological basis. Instead political parties in India are formed on the basis of race, religion, language, caste etc. factors, thus the high number of political parties. [ 3 ] 
Types of political parties [ edit ] 
Main article: List of recognised political parties in India 
There are two types of political parties in India - National Party and Regional/State party. Every political party must bear a symbol and must be registered with the Election Commission of India.
In the current amendment to the Symbols Order, the Commission, has infused the following five principles, which, in its view, should govern the polity in the country, situate as it is in its present state: [ 5 ] 
Legislative presence is a must for recognition as a National or State party., For a National party, it must be the legislative presence in the Lok Sabha, and, for a State party, the legislative presence must be reflected in the State Assembly., In any election, a party can set up a candidate only from amongst its own members., A party, that loses its recognition, shall not lose its symbol immediately, but shall be given the facility to use that symbol for some time to try and retrieve its status. [However, the grant of such facility to the party to use its symbol will not mean the extension of other facilities to it, as are available to recognised parties, like, free time on Doordarshan/AIR, free supply of copies of electoral rolls, etc.], Recognition should be given to a party only on the basis of its own performance in elections and not because it is a splinter group of some other recognised party., Criteria [ 5 ] -
A political party shall be eligible to be recognised as a National party if:-, . it secures at least six percent(6/b> of the valid votes polled in any four or more states, at a general election to the House of the People or, to the State Legislative Assembly; and, in addition, it wins at least four seats in the House of the People from any State or States., OR it wins at least two percent (2/b> seats in the House of the People (i.e., 11 seats in the existing House having 543 members), and these members are elected from at least three different States.
Likewise, a political party shall be entitled to be recognised as a State party, if:-, . it secures at least six percent (6/b> of the valid votes polled in the State at a general election, either to the House of the People or to the Legislative Assembly of the State concerned; and, in addition, it wins at least two seats in the Legislative Assembly of the State concerned., OR
it wins at least three percent (3/b> of the total number of seats in the Legislative Assembly of the State, or at least three seats in the Assembly, whichever is more.
At present there are 6 national parties and over 40 state parties.
Alliances [ edit ] 
There are three alliances on a national level in India, competing with each other for the position of Government. The member parties work in harmony for gratifying national interests, although a party can jump ships whenever it may deem fit.
The three alliances -
National Democratic Alliance(NDA) - Centre-Right coalition led by BJP was formed in 1998 after the elections, NDA formed the government although the government didn't last long as AIADMK withdrew support from it resulting in 1999 general elections, in which NDA won and resumed power. The coalition government went on to complete the full five years term, becoming the first non-Congress government to do so. In the 2014 General Elections NDA once again returned to power for the second time, with a historic mandate of 336 out of 543 Lok Sabha seats. BJP itself won 282 seats thereby electing Narendra Modi as the head of the government., . United Progressive Alliance(UPA) - Centre-Left coalition led by INC, this alliance was created after the 2004 General Elections, with the alliance forming the Government. The alliance even after losing some of its members, was reelected in 2009 General Elections with Manmohan Singh as head of the government., . Third front - The coalition of parties which do not belong to any of the above camps due to certain issues. One of the major parties in the alliance CPI(M), prior to 2009 General Elections was a member party of the UPA. The alliance has no official leading party., . 
Local governance [ edit ] 
Main article: Panchayati Raj 
On April 24, 1993, the Constitutional (73rd Amendment) Act, 1992 came into force to provide constitutional status to the Panchayati Raj institutions. This Act was extended to Panchayats in the tribal areas of eight States, namely Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Rajasthan from 24 December 1996.
The Act aims to provide 3-tier system of Panchayati Raj for all States having population of over 2 million, to hold Panchayat elections regularly every 5 years, to provide reservation of seats for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Women, to appoint State Finance Commission to make recommendations as regards the financial powers of the Panchayats and to constitute District Planning Committee to prepare draft development plan for the district.
Role of political parties [ edit ] 
Part of the Politics series, Party politics Political spectrum Far-left, Left-wing, Center-left, . Center, . Center-right, Right-wing, Far-right, . Radical left, Radical center, Radical right, . , Party platform Radicalism, Liberalism, Moderate, Conservatism, Reactionism, Syncretic, Extremism, Partisan, Fundamentalism, Fanaticism, . , Party system Dominant-party, Non-partisan, . Single-party, Two-party, Multi-party, . , Lists Ideologies, Parties by country, Parties by UN geoscheme, . , Coalition Spectrum Minority Government, Confidence and Supply, Rainbow Coalition, Full Coalition, . Majority Government, Grand Coalition, National Unity Government, . , Politics portal, v , t , e , . , For other political parties see List of political parties in India. An overview on elections and election results is included in Elections in India. 
As with any other democracy, political parties represent different sections among the Indian society and regions, and their core values play a major role in the politics of India. Both the executive branch and the legislative branch of the government are run by the representatives of the political parties who have been elected through the elections. Through the electoral process, the people of India choose which representative and which political party should run the government. Through the elections any party may gain simple majority in the lower house. Coalitions are formed by the political parties, in case no single party gains a simple majority in the lower house. Unless a party or a coalition have a majority in the lower house, a government cannot be formed by that party or the coalition.
Indian state governments led by various political parties as of March 2014. 
India has a multi-party system, where there are a number of national as well as regional parties. A regional party may gain a majority and rule a particular state. If a party is represented in more than 4 states, it would be labelled a national party. Out of the 66 years of India's independence, India has been ruled by the Indian National Congress (INC) for 53 of those years.
The party enjoyed a parliamentary majority save for two brief periods during the 1970s and late 1980s. This rule was interrupted between 1977 to 1980, when the Janata Party coalition won the election owing to public discontent with the controversial state of emergency declared by the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. The Janata Dal won elections in 1989, but its government managed to hold on to power for only two years.
Between 1996 and 1998, there was a period of political flux with the government being formed first by the nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) followed by a left-leaning United Front coalition. In 1998, the BJP formed the National Democratic Alliance with smaller regional parties, and became the first non-INC and coalition government to complete a full five-year term. The 2004 Indian elections saw the INC winning the largest number of seats to form a government leading the United Progressive Alliance, and supported by left-parties and those opposed to the BJP.
On 22 May 2004, Manmohan Singh was appointed the Prime Minister of India following the victory of the INC and the left front in the 2004 Lok Sabha election. The UPA ruled India without the support of the left front. Previously, Atal Bihari Vajpayee had taken office in October 1999 after a general election in which a BJP-led coalition of 13 parties called the National Democratic Alliance emerged with a majority. In May 2014, Narendra Modi of BJP was elected as Prime Minister of India.
Formation of coalition governments reflects the transition in Indian politics away from the national parties toward smaller, more narrowly based regional parties. Some regional parties, especially in South India, are deeply aligned to the ideologies of the region unlike the national parties and thus the relationship between the central government and the state government in various states has not always been free of rancor. Disparity between the ideologies of the political parties ruling the centre and the state leads to severely skewed allocation of resources between the states.
Political issues [ edit ] 
Main article: Socio-economic issues in India See also: Corruption in India 
Social issues [ edit ] 
The lack of homogeneity in the Indian population causes division between different sections of the people based on religion, region, language, caste and race. This has led to the rise of political parties with agendas catering to one or a mix of these groups.
Some parties openly profess their focus on a particular group; for example, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam's and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam's focus on the Dravidian population, and the Shiv Sena's pro-Marathi agenda. Some other parties claim to be universal in nature, but tend to draw support from particular sections of the population. For example, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (translated as National People's Party) has a vote bank among the Yadav and Muslim population of Bihar and the All India Trinamool Congress does not have any significant support outside West Bengal.
The narrow focus and votebank politics of most parties, even in the central government and central legislature, sidelines national issues such as economic welfare and national security. Moreover, internal security is also threatened as incidences of political parties instigating and leading violence between two opposing groups of people is a frequent occurrence.
Economic issues [ edit ] 
Economic issues like poverty, unemployment, development are main issues that influence politics. Garibi hatao (eradicate poverty) has been a slogan of the Indian National Congress for a long time. The well known Bharatiya Janata Party encourages a free market economy. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) vehemently supports left-wing politics like land-for-all, right to work and strongly opposes neo-liberal policies such as globalization, capitalism and privatization.
Law and order [ edit ] 
Terrorism, Naxalism, religious violence and caste-related violence are important issues that affect the political environment of the Indian nation. Stringent anti-terror legislation such as TADA, POTA and MCOCA have received much political attention, both in favour and opposed.
Terrorism had effected politics India since its conception, be it the terrorism supported from Pakistan or the internal guerrilla groups such as Naxalites. In 1991 the former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated during an election campaign. [ 6 ] The suicide bomber was later linked to the Sri Lankan terrorist group Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, as it was later revealed the killing was an act of vengeance for Rajiv Gandhi sending troops in Sri Lanka against them in 1987. [ 6 ] 
The Babri Masjid demolition on December 6, 1992 by Hindu Karsevaks resulted in nation-wide communal riots in two months, with worst occurring in Mumbai with at least 900 dead. [ 6 ] [ 7 ] The riots were followed by 1993 Mumbai Bomb Blasts, which resulted in more deaths.
Law and order issues, such as action against organised crime are issues which do not affect the outcomes of elections. On the other hand, there is a criminalapolitician nexus. Many elected legislators have criminal cases against them. In July 2008, the Washington Post reported that nearly a fourth of the 540 Indian Parliament members faced criminal charges, "including human trafficking, immigration rackets, embezzlement, rape and even murder". [ 8 ] 
See also [ edit ] 
Government of India, Law of India, Indian political scandals, Disqualification of convicted representatives in India, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ M.Laxmikanth. Public Administration (9th ed.). Tata Mcgraw Hill. pp.389a390. ISBN0071074821. , ^ "General Election 2014". Election Commission of India . Retrieved 21 May 2014 . , ^ a b Prakash Chander, Prem Arora. "Nature of Party System in India". Comparative Politics and International Relations . Cosmos Bookhive. pp.129a134. ISBN817729035-5. , ^ "Journey of the Nehru-Gandhi family". CNN-IBN . Retrieved 12 March 2014 . , ^ a b "Election Commission Of India Press Note" . Retrieved 13 March 2014 . , ^ a b c Guha, Ramachandra (2008). India after Gandhi: the history of the world's largest democracy (Indian ed. ed.). India: Picador. pp.637a659. ISBN9780330505543. , ^ "Shiv Sainiks will maintain peace post-Ayodhya verdict: Uddhav". Hindustan Times . HT Media Ltd . Retrieved 13 March 2014 . , ^ Wax, Emily (24 July 2008). "With Indian Politics, the Bad Gets Worse". The Washington Post . Retrieved 22 May 2010 . , Further reading [ edit ] 
Chowdhuri, Satyabrata Rai. Leftism in India, 1917-1947 . Palgrave , U.K., 2007., Shively, W. Phillips. Power and Choice: An Introduction to Political ScienceaChapter 14 Example: Parliamentary Government in India. McGraw Hill Higher Education, 2008. ISBN 978-0-07-340391-5, Mitra, Subrata K. and Singh, V.B.. Democracy and Social Change in India: A Cross-Sectional Analysis of the National Electorate . New Delhi: Sage Publications, 1999. ISBN 81-7036-809-X (India HB) ISBN 0-7619-9344-4 (U.S. HB)., Tawa Lama-Rewal, StAphanie. "Studying Elections in India: Scientific and Political Debates" . South Asia Multidisciplinary Academic Journal, 3, 2009. , . 
External links [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Politics of India ., Outline of the Indian Government, Official party websites: Official Indian National Congress Web Site, Official Bharatiya Janata Party Web Site, . , . 
v , t , e , . Politics of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India , Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . India topics , History , Overviews Timeline, Republic of India by year, . Astronomy, Economics, Linguistics, Maritime, Mathematics, Metallurgy, Military, Postal, Science and technology, . , Pre-colonial Stone Age, Indus Valley Civilization, Vedic period, Mahajanapadas, Mauryas, Middle kingdoms, Hoysala, Chola, Pala, Kakatiya, Delhi Sultanate, Vijayanagara, Mughals, Marathas, European trade, . , Colonial, Princely, . East India Company, Plassey, 1857 rebellion, British Raj, Railways, Economy, Army, Zamindari, Bengali renaissance, Political reforms, Princely states, Partition of Bengal, Independence movement, 1943 famine, World War II, Partition, . , Republic Integration, Non-Aligned Movement, Five-Year Plans, Sino-Indian War, Indo-Pakistani wars, Green Revolution, White Revolution, Naxal Insurgency, Smiling Buddha, Space programme, The Emergency, Indian Peace Keeping Force (IPKF), Economic liberalisation, Pokhran-II, . , Geography , Environment Biosphere reserves, Climate Climatic regions, . , Ecoregions, Environmental issues, Fauna, Flora, Geology, National parks, Protected areas, Wildlife, sanctuaries, . , Landforms Beaches, Desert, Extreme points, Glaciers, Islands, Lakes, Mountains, Plains Indo-Gangetic, Eastern coastal, Western coastal, . , Rivers, Valleys, Volcanoes, Waterfalls, . , Regions East, North, Northeast, South, West, . , Subdivisions Autonomous administrative divisions, Cities, Districts, Municipalities, States and territories, . , Politics , Government Agencies, Cabinet, Energy policy, Foreign relations, Parliament, President Vice President, . , Prime Minister Deputy Prime Minister, . , State governments, . , Law 
Chief Justice, Constitution, District Courts, Fundamental rights, principles and duties, High Courts, Human rights, Supreme Court, . , Enforcement 
Federal Border Security Force (BSF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), National Security Guard (NSG), Railway Protection Force (RPF), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Special Protection Group (SPG), . , Intelligence Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR and D), Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Intelligence Bureau (IB), Joint Intelligence Committee (JIC), Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), National Investigation Agency (NIA), Research and Analysis Wing (R and AW), . , Military Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, . , Politics Censorship, Elections, Nationalism, Parliament Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha, . , Political parties INC, BJP, BSP, CPI, CPM, NCP, . , Reservations, Scandals, Scheduled groups, Secularism, . , Economy , Agriculture, Animal husbandry, Companies, Economic development, Energy nuclear, wind, solar, . , Fishing, Forestry, Income, International rankings, Labour, Reserve Bank, Retailing in India Supermarket chains in India, Indian fast food, . , Rupee (currency) , Stock exchanges Bombay (BSE), National (NSE), . , Telecommunications, Tourism, Transport, . , Society, Culture, . , Society Caste system, Corruption, Demographics, Education Universities in India, Medical colleges in India, Law schools in India, . , Ethnic relations, Healthcare Hospitals in India, . , Languages, Literacy, Poverty, Prisons, Religion, Socio-economic issues, Standard of living, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Arts and entertainment, Architecture, Cinema, Cuisine wine, . , Dance, Dress, Folklore, Literature, Media television, . , Martial arts, Music, Public holidays, Sport, . , Book, Category, Commons, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_India and oldid=632350478" Categories: Politics of India, . Hidden categories: Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, aaaaa, DNDDDNNDD, Deutsch, TTTTTTTTTT, EspaAol, Esperanto, FranAais, aaaaaa, Italiano, Polski, PortuguAs, DNNNDDD, aaaaaaaaa, Svenska, aaaaa, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 4 November 2014 at 00:05.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
