
Internet in Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Internet in Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search For other uses, see Runet (disambiguation). Not to be confused with Russian-language Internetor Runet (terminology). Runet logo at the 2009 Runet Prize ceremony 
Internet in Russia or Russian Internet (Russian: NDNNDDNDDD DDNDNDDN which means Russia-related Internet ) and sometimes Runet (unclear term) is a part of the Internet, which is related to Russia. Currently Internet access in Russia is available to businesses and home users in various forms, including dial-up, cable, DSL, FTTH, mobile, wireless and satellite. In September 2011, Russia overtook Germany on the European market with the highest number of unique visitors online. [ 1 ] In March 2013 it was announced that Russian is now the second most used language on the web. [ 2 ] 
Internet in Russia is also sometimes called Runet, although the term mostly refers to the Russian-language Internet.
Contents
1 History 1.1 Early years , 1.2 Mass usage , . , 2 Population , 3 Backbone , 4 Researches , 5 See also , 6 References , 7 External links , . 
History [ edit ] 
Early years [ edit ] 
Retrospectively, "networking" of "data" in the Russian language can be traced to the spread of mail and journalism in Russia, and information transfer by technical means came with the telegraph and radio (besides, an 1837 sci-fi novel Year 4338 , by the 19th-century Russian philosopher Vladimir Odoevsky, contains predictions such as "friends' houses are connected by means of magnetic telegraphs that allow people who live far from each other to talk to each other" and "household journals" "having replaced regular correspondence" with "information about the hostsa good or bad health, family news, various thoughts and comments, small inventions, as well as invitations" [ 3 ] ).
Computing systems became known in the USSR by the 1950s. Starting from 1952, work was conducted in the Moscow-based Institute of Precision Mechanics and Computer Engineering (headed by Sergei Lebedev) on automated missile defense system which used a "computer network" which calculated radar data on test missiles through central machine called M-40 and was interchanging information with smaller remote terminals about 100a200 kilometers distant. [ 4 ] The scientists used several locations in the USSR for their works, the largest was a massive test range to the West from Lake Balkhash. In the meantime amateur radio users all over USSR were conducting "P2P" connections with their comrades worldwide using data codes. Later, a massive "automated data network" called Express was launched in 1972 to serve the needs of Russian Railways.
From the early 1980s the All Union Scientific Research Institute for Applied Computerized Systems ( VNIIPAS ) was working to implement data connections over the X.25 telephone protocol. A test Soviet connection to Austria in 1982 existed, in 1982 and 1983 there were a series of "world computer conferences" at VNIIPAS initiated by the U.N. where the USSR was represented by a team of scientists from many Soviet Republics headed by biochemist Anatoly Klyosov. The other participating countries were the UK, USA, Canada, Sweden, FRG, GDR, Italy, Finland, Philippines, Guatemala, Japan, Thailand, Luxembourg, Denmark, Brazil and New Zealand. [ 5 ] 
Also, in 1983 the San Francisco Moscow Teleport (SFMT) was started by VNIIPAS and an American team which included Joel Schatz, Michael Kleeman and Chet Watson with initial financial support from Henry Dakin. SFMT provided email service using the PeaceNet platform and multi-lanaguge support. It also undertook several slowscan video links between the two country, including supporting physicians including UCLA's Bob Gale in treating patients exposed in the Chernobyl accident. It later founded a for profit phone and data provider SovAm (Soviet-American) Teleport in the later 80s. Meanwhile, on April 1, 1984 a Fool's Day hoax about "Kremlin computer" Kremvax was made in the English-speaking Usenet. There are reports of spontaneous Internet (UUCP and telnet) connections "from home" through X.25 in the USSR in as early as 1988. In 1990 a GlasNet non-profit initiative by the US-based Association for Progressive Communications sponsored Internet usage in several educational projects in the USSR (through Sovam).
Mass usage [ edit ] 
Conference "Internet and Science: 15 years of going" in the Kurchatov Institute on November 10, 2005 
In 1990a1991 Relcom's network was rapidly expanding, it joined EUnet and was used to spread news about the Soviet coup attempt of 1991 worldwide while coupers through KGB were trying to suppress mass media activity on the subject. [ 6 ] After the fall of the USSR many former Soviet state-controlled structures were inherited by the Russian Federation, vast telephone networks among them. [ 7 ] With the transformation of the economy, market-based telecommunication industries grew quickly, various ISPs appeared.
Meanwhile, the first Russian FidoNet node reportedly started in October 1990 in Novosibirsk, and the USSR was included in FidoNet's Region 50 . Russian FidoNet activity did contribute to the development of Runet, as mass-networking over BBSes was for a time more popular than over the Internet in the early 90s.
By the mid-1990s, computer networks (where TCP/IP was replacing UUCP) appeared in many branches of regular life and commerce in Post-Soviet states. The Internet became a popular means of communication for anyone in the world who spoke Russian. National so-called Nets of former Soviet Republics began to occur (e.g. Uznet , Kaznet and others).
In October 2007 then Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev announced that all of schools in Russia (about 59, 000) were connected to the Internet, but later concerns were publicized that there were problems with a contractor to serve them. Also in December 2007, as a follow-up to the noted Ponosov's Case, which dealt with the use of illegal software in Russian schools, plans were announced to officially test Linux in the schools of Perm Krai, Tatarstan and Tomsk Oblast to determine the feasibility of further implementing Linux-based education in the country's other regions. [ 8 ] In subsequent years test results were considered successful, but new organizational problems appeared, including obscurities with distribution of funds assigned by state. [ 9 ] 
According to statistics of the European Council, in the second half of 2012 the number of new subscribers connected by technology FTTx (fiber to building) in Russia increased by 2.2 million people, more than all 27 countries of the European Union combined. The total number of households with lets FTTx connection was 7.5 million. This means that at 2012 over 40f the fixed line broadband access in Russia were fiber optic. [ 10 ] 
Population [ edit ] 
Dmitry Medvedev opens RIF-2008 
The prominent Public Opinion Foundation FOM (DDD) in March 2007 issued a report that found 28 million people of 18 years and older in Russia (25had used the internet within the last six months (monthly users 23.9/21daily 10.1/9 [ 11 ] In November 2006 TNS Gallup Media in a report called by some sources "first quality Internet audience research in Russia" put a monthly Russian audience at more than 15 million. [ 12 ] The Rukv.ru monitoring project found 1, 001, 806 WWW-addresses within .ru and .su responding in March 2008. [ 13 ] The national domain registration service RU-Center announced creation of millionth .ru domain on September 17, 2007 (about 200 thousand of domains are thought to be 'parked' by squatters).
On April 3, 2008, the RIF-2008 was opened by president-elect of Russia Dmitry Medvedev, who said in the opening address to the forum that he estimates Runet to be populated by 40 million users, or 28 percent of the population. He also stated that Russian sites do $3 billion in annual transactions and have $370 million in advertising revenue. [ 14 ] 
In October 2008 President Medvedev started his own video blog, which in April 2009 was expanded with the separately moderated version in LiveJournal. [ 15 ] 
In June 2009 FOM issued results of its new survey that found the "half-year audience" of people 18 years old and over was 33or 37.5 million. [ 16 ] 
CIA World Factbook states there were 10.382 million internet hosts in 2008 and 40.853 million internet users in 2010. [ 17 ] 
By March 2011 the total number of broadband subscribers reached 16.5 million with penetration at almost 30These numbers increased within two years by 180gainst 9 million in 2009. The highest penetration rate above 70s in Moscow and Saint-Petersburg, these two cities also makes up a quarter of all subscribers (3.2 and 1.2 million respectively). [ 18 ] 
In September 2011, Russia overtook Germany as the European market with the highest number of unique visitors online. [ 19 ] 
In March 2013 it was announced that Russian is now the second most used language on the web. [ 20 ] According to Daily Telecom estimates, by the third quarter of 2013 there were 26.3 million broadband subscribers. Largest residential Internet service providers by market share at the end of 2013 were: Rostelecom: 38.6ER-Telecom: 11.1VimpelCom: 10.1MTS: 9.4TransTelekom: 4.6AKADO: 3.3Others: 22.9up id="cite_ref-21" class="reference"> [ 21 ] 
Backbone [ edit ] 
Government officials report to Russian Internet Forum on the "Electronic Russia" in 2005 
The development of Internet infrastructure in Russia began with development analog modem-based computer networks in Soviet cities, primarily in scientific institutions. The first one to connect UNIX email hosts country-wide (including Soviet Republics) was the Relcom organization which formed on August 1, 1990 at the Kurchatov nuclear physics institute in Moscow. They were functioning together with partner programming cooperative Demos , named after the Soviet-made DEMOS Unix-like operating system. In August 1990 they established regular email routing with an Internet node in Helsinki University over a paid voice line.
Back in the 1990s, Rostelecom built international fiber optic cable systems - "Zapadny" (Denmark-Russia), "Yuzhny" (Italy-Turkey-Ukraine-Russia) and "Vostochny" (Russia-Japan-Korea) - as well as "Moscow-Khabarovsk" Trans-Russian Fiber Optic Line. The situation favored Russia's entry to the international telecommunication transit market. However, low transmission capacity (560 megabits per second) of all the three systems designed mainly for voice communication became the principal obstacle that hindered international expansion.
In 2005 the Chelyabinsk-Khabarovsk Fiber-Optic Communication Line was laid-down which extends for 10 thousand kilometers. The minimum transmission rate is 120 Gigabits per second. [ 22 ] 
Plenty of local commercial ISPs function in large cities, but most of the existing country-wide cable lines are held by small number of large operators such as former "monopolist", the state-controlled Rostelecom and the railways-affiliated Transtelecom, which operates country biggest DWDM fiber backbone. Cell phone coverage with the digital services such as GPRS is almost ubiquitous. In year 2007 the Golden Telecom company has constructed a massive Wi-Fi network in Moscow for commercial use which is recognized as the largest urban wireless network in the world. [ 23 ] The Black Sea coast of Russia has became an important area for the fiber-optic networks, as it served as a backbone of communication during the Winter Olympic Games in 2014.
On October 2010 mobile operator MegaFon has selected Huawei NE5000E routers to construct backbone nodes for a 40-Gbit/s IP/MPLS network in Russia' s largest cities, including Moscow and St. Petersburg, Huawei says. Meanwhile, Megafon also announced the opening of what it touts as Russiaas largest data center in Samara. [ 24 ] 
In 2011 Rostelecom started implementation of WDM-based equipment on the backbone network for data transmission in the Republic of Dagestan. Due to WDM introduction the fiber-optic communication lines bandwidth increased to 2.5 Gbit/s. Rostelecom invested about 48 million rubles in the project. [ 25 ] 
Until 2011 the backbone network in Russia was based on DWDM technology with a capacity of 10 and 40 Gbit/s. the operator started projects to expand the capacity of the Transit Europe a Asia transit line at two independent branches. Communication lines are under construction within a second phase of the TEA backbone "High Speed Backbone Transit Europe-Asia". The construction of the first branch completed in 2011 (Khabarovsk a Stockholm). The second branch (Khabarovsk a Frankfurt) was completed in 2013. In addition, the expanded backbones are in the route of Khabarovsk a Nakhodka a Tokyo and Khabarovsk a Hong Kong, where equipment of 100G WDM is also applied. [ 26 ] 
Presently, MasterTel, based in Moscow and Saint Petersburg, is an ISP that provides high speed fiber-optic lines of up to 10Gbits per second to consumers and businesses. [ 27 ] 
Researches [ edit ] 
Harvard University's Berkman Center conducts regular researches of Internet in Russia, [ 28 ] and, in particular, has papers named "Mapping RuNet Politics and Mobilization" [ 29 ] and "RuNet Echo". [ 30 ] The prominent Public Opinion Foundation (FOM) regular Internet measurements are titled Runet.fom.ru. [ 31 ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Internet in Russia ., See also [ edit ] 
, Internet portal, Russia portal, Telecommunications in Russia, Internet censorship in Russia, List of countries by number of Internet users, List of sovereign states in Europe by number of Internet users, Freedom of the press in the Russian Federation#Internet, Internet Exchange Points in Russia, Russian Wikipedia, List of Russian IT developers, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ "comScore Releases Overview of European Internet Usage in September 2011". comScore. 14 November 2011. , ^ http://w3techs.com/blog/entry/russian_is_now_the_second_most_used_language_on_the_web , ^ Blogging Predicted by a 19th-century Russian Prince at the Wayback Machine (archived October 13, 2005) a Mosnews.com, 10.10.2005 (copy at Archive.org). , ^ (Russian) DNNNDD, DNDDDDDD (2002). DDNDDDNDDN DDNNDDN NDDDD DDDDDDDDD D.D.DDDDDDDD D NDDDDNDD DNNDNDDNDDNDDD NDNDDDD. (DNNDDD). D.: DDNDNDDNDDDDND NDNDDDDDDD D DNNDNDDNDDNDND NDNNDDN. 2002-DND.3. pp.42a43. 3. , ^ (Russian) DDDDNDNN DDN NDNNNN, DDD DDD DDNDDDDNN DDNDNDDN D DDDDNNDDD DDNDD a expanded article originally from Ogonyok magazine a45, 2001. , ^ A Computer Network for Democracy and Development a an August, 1991 report by Larry Press, a computer science professor at California State University , ^ Russian Telecommunications: Crisis Creation of Infrastructure in 1992a1992 study by Gordon Cook, a telecom analyst , ^ (Russian) DDDDNDND Linux DNDNN DDDDNNNN DND DDDNNDD Linux-DDDDDDDD DDNNDD a LinuxCenter.Ru, 03/12/2007 , ^ (Russian) DDNDDDDDD "DDNN DDDNDN" D DDDDNDDDD DDD D NDDDDN DDNNDD a ALT Linux, 15/06/2009 , ^ "DDDDDDD DDDDNDNDD: NDNNDDNDDN NDDDDNNDN D DDD NDNNDDNNN DD NNDN DDDNNNDN NNDNDDDD DDD DDNDDDD D DDNDDDDD N DDNDDDDDDD DN 500 NDDDDDD". broadcasting.ru . Retrieved 16 November 2013 . , ^ Project "The Internet in Russia/Russia on the Internet". 18th Release. Winter 2006-2007 a FOM 23.03.2007, Population Poll , ^ (Russian) DDDDDNNNDDN DNDDNDNDN DNDDND a DDDNND 15 DDDDDDDDD NDDDDDD a TNS Gallup report summary, 24.11.2006 , ^ (Russian) DNDDN D DDNND 2008 DDDD: DDDDDN, NDNNDDD, DDDDNDNDN NDDNDD a Rukv.ru, March, 2008 , ^ Russiaas New Leader: Fan of the Internet a The Lede at The New York Times, April 14, 2008 , ^ (Russian) Medvedev's video blog blog.kremlin.ru, its exported and separately moderated version for LiveJournal is blog_medvedev. , ^ (Russian) ADDNDNDDN D DDNNDDA. DDDNDDDNDND DNDNND. DDNN 2009 a FOM, 22.06.2009 , ^ CIA - The World Factbook -- Russia , ^ "Residential Broadband Statistics". AC and M-Consulting. 23 June 2011 . Retrieved 19 July 2011 . , ^ "comScore Releases Overview of European Internet Usage in September 2011". comScore. 14 November 2011. , ^ http://w3techs.com/blog/entry/russian_is_now_the_second_most_used_language_on_the_web , ^ # ixzz2m97PR5wz "DDNDNDDN-DNDDDDDDNN NDNNN DNDDDNN DDD NNNDD". ComNews. 30 November 2011. , ^ Fiber-Optic Ridge of Russia, RusBusiness News. 20.05.2010 , ^ What is Golden WiFi? a Golden Telecom reference , ^ Russia's MegaFon opens data center, plans IP/MPLS backbone network, October 6, 2010 , ^ Broadband Russia Newslatter , ^ Similar Broadband and Satellite Russia Newsletter - ComNews , ^ http://www.mastertel.ru/en/services/optical.php , ^ http://cyber.law.harvard.edu/research/russia , ^ http://cyber.law.harvard.edu/publications/2010/Public_Discourse_Russian_Blogosphere , ^ http://globalvoicesonline.org/-/special/runet-echo/ , ^ http://runet.fom.ru/ , External links [ edit ] 
Public Discourse in the Russian Blogosphere: Mapping RuNet Politics and Mobilization a Berkman Center study, October 18, 2010, Project "The Internet in Russia/Russia on the Internet" by FOM (Public Opinion Foundation), "Infact.ru - What is known about Russian Internet", Internet and Democratization: The Development of Russian Internet Policy, Demokratizatsiya, Fall 2004, by Alexander, Marcus, The Internet in Putinas Russia: Reinventing a Technology of Authoritarianism, by Marcus Alexander, Department of Politics and International Relations, University of Oxford, Gorny, Eugene (2006): A Creative History of the Russian Internet. a PHD thesis, Goldsmiths College, University of London, Nethistory.ru (Russian) , Kremlin Control of Russian Internet, is Rising Open Source Center report, Retrieved 6 April 2010. the Report from 28 February 2010, . 
v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet , National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Internet in Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , v , t , e , . Internet in Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia , Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , (http://www.motherjones.com/politics/1986/06/slow-scan-moscow), . 
(*http://articles.latimes.com/1987-12-09/news/vw-18480_1_electronic-mail)
Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Internet_in_Russia and oldid=632664642" Categories: Internet in Russia, . Hidden categories: Articles with Russian-language external links, Articles containing Russian-language text, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
FranAais, Italiano, DNNNDDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 6 November 2014 at 07:39.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
