
Politics of Iraq - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of Iraq 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Iraq , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Iraq , Constitution Government Federal government, President (list) Fuad Masum , Vice Presidents, Prime Minister (list) Haider al-Abadi , Cabinet Current cabinet , . , Legislature Council of Representatives Speaker: Usama al-Nujayfi , . , Judiciary Supreme Court, . , Administrative divisions Governorates (provinces), Districts, Iraqi Kurdistan Kurdistan Regional Government Kurdistan Parliament , . , Elections Political parties, Electoral Commission, Recent elections Legislative: 2005 (Jan) , 2005 (Dec) , 2010, . Gubernatorial: 2005, 2009, . , 2005 constitutional referendum, . , Foreign relations Foreign aid to Iraq, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The politics of Iraq takes place in a framework of a federal parliamentary representative democratic republic. It is a multi-party system whereby the executive power is exercised by the Prime Minister of the Council of Ministers as the head of government, as well as the President of Iraq, and legislative power is vested in the Council of Representatives and the Federation Council.
The current Prime Minister of Iraq is Nouri al-Maliki, who holds most of the executive authority and appointed the Council of Ministers, which acts as a cabinet and/or government. On 14 August 2014 al-Maliki announced he was stepping down as Prime Minister of Iraq to allow his opponent Haider al-Abadi to take his place. [ 1 ] 
Contents
1 History , 2 Government 2.1 Federal government , 2.2 Local government 2.2.1 Regions , 2.2.2 Provinces , . , . , 3 Political parties 3.1 Parliamentary alliances and parties , 3.2 Other parties , 3.3 Illegal parties , . , 4 Elections 4.1 Iraqi parliamentary election, January 2005 , 4.2 Iraqi parliamentary election, December 2005 , 4.3 Iraqi parliamentary election, 2010 , 4.4 Iraqi parliamentary election, 2014 , . , 5 Issues 5.1 Corruption , . , 6 See also , 7 References , 8 Further reading , 9 External links , . 
History [ edit ] 
Main article: History of Iraq 
Before the fall of Saddam Hussein in 2003, the Ba'ath Party officially ruled. Iraq was occupied by foreign troops beginning with the 2003 invasion of Iraq, with military forces coming primarily from the United States and the United Kingdom. Most foreign militaries operated under the umbrella of the Multinational force in Iraq (the MNFaI ), authorized under United Nations Security Council Resolution 1546, 1637, 1723, and 1790 until December 31, 2008. On January 1, 2009 the U.S.aIraq Status of Forces Agreement entered into force.
The occupation yielded to a transitional administrative law, which was replaced by the Constitution of Iraq following approval in a referendum held on October 15, 2005. A permanent 275-member Council of Representatives was elected in the December 2005 Iraqi legislative elections, initiating the formation of the Government of Iraq, 2006-2010. The last elections were the January 2010 Iraqi legislative elections.
Government [ edit ] 
Federal government [ edit ] 
Main article: Federal government of Iraq Council of Representatives of Iraq. 
The federal government of Iraq is defined under the current Constitution as an Islamic, [ 2 ] democratic, federal parliamentary republic. [ 3 ] The federal government is composed of the executive, legislative, and judicial branches, as well as numerous independent commissions.
The legislative branch is composed of the Council of Representatives and a Federation Council. [ 4 ] The executive branch is composed of the President, the Prime Minister, and the Council of Ministers. [ 5 ] The federal judiciary is composed of the Higher Judicial Council, the Supreme Court, the Court of Cassation, the Public Prosecution Department, the Judiciary Oversight Commission, and other federal courts that are regulated by law. [ 6 ] One such court is the Central Criminal Court.
The Independent High Commission for Human Rights, the Independent High Electoral Commission, and the Commission on Integrity are independent commissions subject to monitoring by the Council of Representatives. [ 7 ] The Central Bank of Iraq, the Board of Supreme Audit, the Communications and Media Commission, and the Endowment Commission are financially and administratively independent institutions. [ 8 ] The Foundation of Martyrs is attached to the Council of Ministers. [ 9 ] The Federal Public Service Council regulates the affairs of the federal public service, including appointment and promotion. [ 10 ] 
Local government [ edit ] 
The basic subdivisions of the country are the regions and the governorates. Both regions and governorates are given broad autonomy with regions given additional powers such as control of internal security forces for the region such as police, security forces, and guards. [ 11 ] The last local elections for the governorates were held in the 2009 Iraqi governorate elections on 31 January 2009.
Regions [ edit ] 
Main article: regions of Iraq 
The constitution requires that the Council of Representatives enact a law which provides the procedures for forming a new region 6 months from the start of its first session. [ 12 ] A law was passed 11 October 2006 by a unanimous vote with only 138 of 275 representatives present, with the remaining representatives boycotting the vote. [ 13 ] [ 14 ] Legislators from the Iraqi Accord Front, Sadrist Movement and Islamic Virtue Party all opposed the bill. [ 15 ] 
Under the law, a region can be created out of one or more existing governorates or two or more existing regions, and a governorate can also join an existing region to create a new region. A new region can be proposed by one third or more of the council members in each affected governorate plus 500 voters or by one tenth or more voters in each affected governorate. A referendum must then be held within three months, which requires a simple majority in favour to pass. In the event of competing proposals, the multiple proposals are put to a ballot and the proposal with the most supporters is put to the referendum. In the event of an affirmative referendum a Transitional Legislative Assembly is elected for one year, which has the task of writing a constitution for the Region, which is then put to a referendum requiring a simple majority to pass. The President, Prime Minister and Ministers of the region are elected by simple majority, in contrast to the Iraqi Council of Representatives which requires two thirds support. [ 14 ] 
Provinces [ edit ] 
Main articles: provinces of Iraq and districts of Iraq See also: Government of Baghdad Iraqi Governorates 
Iraq is divided into 18 provinces, which are further divided into districts:
BaghdAd (OOOOO), SalAh ad-DAn (OUOO OUOUU), DiyAlA (OUOUU), WAsit (UOOO), MaysAn (UUOOU), Al-Basrah (OUOOOO), DhA QAr (OU UOO), Al-MuthannA (OUUOUU), Al-QAdisiyyah (OUUOOOUO), BAbil (OOOU), Al-KarbalA' (UOOUOO), An-Najaf (OUUOU), Al-Anbar (OUOUOOO), NAnawA (UUUUU), DahAk (OUUU), ArbAl (OOOUU), Kirkuk (or At-Ta'mim) (OUOOUUU), As-SulaymAniyyah (OUOUUUOUUO), Political parties [ edit ] 
Parliamentary alliances and parties [ edit ] 
National Iraqi Alliance Supreme Islamic Iraqi Council ( al-Majlis al-alalith-thaura l-islamiyya fil-Iraq ) - led by Ammar al-Hakim, Sadrist Movement - led by Muqtada al-Sadr, Islamic Dawa Party - Iraq Organisation ( Hizb al-Da'wa al-Islami Tendeem al-Iraq ) - led by Kasim Muhammad Taqi al-Sahlani, Islamic Dawa Party ( Hizb al-Da'wa al-Islamiyya ) - led by Nouri al-Maliki, Tribes of Iraq Coalition - led by Hamid al-Hais, Islamic Fayli Grouping in Iraq - led by Muqdad Al-Baghdadi, . , Democratic Patriotic Alliance of Kurdistan Kurdistan Democratic Party ( Partiya Demokrat a KurdistanA ) - led by Massoud Barzani, Patriotic Union of Kurdistan ( Yaketi Nishtimani Kurdistan ) - led by Jalal Talabani, Kurdistan Islamic Union ( YekAtiya Islamiya Kurdistan ), Movement for Change ( Bizutnaway Gorran ) - led by Nawshirwan Mustafa, Kurdistan Toilersa Party ( Parti Zahmatkeshan Kurdistan ), Kurdistan Communist Party ( Partiya KomunAst Kurdistan ), Assyrian Patriotic Party, . , Iraqi List ( al-Qayimaal Iraqia ) Iraqi National Accord - led by Iyad Allawi, . , The Iraqis - led by Ghazi al-Yawer, Iraqi Turkmen Front ( Irak TArkmen Cephesi) ) (same as Alliance of the Turkomen Front of Iraq?), National Independent Cadres and Elites, People's Union ( Ittihad Al Shaab ) Iraqi Communist Party - led by Hamid Majid Mousa, . , Islamic Kurdish Society - led by Ali Abd-al Aziz, Islamic Labour Movement in Iraq, National Democratic Party ( Hizb al Dimuqratiyah al Wataniyah ) - led by Samir al-Sumaidai, National Rafidain List Assyrian Democratic Movement ( Zowaa Dimuqrataya Aturaya )- led by Yonadam Kanna, . , Reconciliation and Liberation Bloc, The Upholders of the Message ( Al-Risaliyun ), Mithal al-Alusi List, Yazidi Movement for Reform and Progress, . 
Other parties [ edit ] 
Communist Party of Iraq, Worker-Communist Party of Iraq, Leftist Worker-Communist Party of Iraq, Alliance of Independent Democrats - led by Adnan Pachachi, National Democratic Party - Naseer al-Chaderchi, Green Party of Iraq, Iraqi Democratic Union, Iraqi National Accord, Constitutional Monarchy Movement - led by Sharif Ali Bin al-Hussein, Assyrian Patriotic Party - on the Democratic Patriotic Alliance of Kurdistan list, Assyria Liberation Party, Kurdistan Conservative Party, Turkmen People's Party, Iraqi Islamic Party - led by Mohsen Abdel Hamid, Al Neshoor Party, . 
Illegal parties [ edit ] 
Hizb ut-Tahrir, Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party (Regional Command A National Command), . 
Elections [ edit ] 
Main article: Elections in Iraq 
Iraqi parliamentary election, January 2005 [ edit ] 
Main article: Iraqi parliamentary election, January 2005 Iraqi police officers hold up their index fingers marked with purple indelible ink, a security measure to prevent double voting. 
Elections for the National Assembly of Iraq were held on January 30, 2005 in Iraq. The 275-member National Assembly was a parliament created under the Transitional Law during the Occupation of Iraq. The newly elected transitional Assembly was given a mandate to write the new and permanent Constitution of Iraq and exercised legislative functions until the new Constitution came into effect, and resulted in the formation of the Iraqi Transitional Government.
The United Iraqi Alliance, tacitly backed by Shia Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, led with some 48f the vote. The Democratic Patriotic Alliance of Kurdistan was in second place with some 26f the vote. Prime Minister Ayad Allawi's party, the Iraqi List, came third with some 14In total, twelve parties received enough votes to win a seat in the assembly.
Low Arab Sunni turnout threatened the legitimacy of the election, which was as low as 2n Anbar province. More than 100 armed attacks on polling places took place, killing at least 44 people (including nine suicide bombers) across Iraq, including at least 20 in Baghdad.
Iraqi parliamentary election, December 2005 [ edit ] 
Main article: Iraqi parliamentary election, December 2005 Iraqis in the predominantly Sunni city of Husaybah, wait in lines to vote during the national election. 
Following the ratification of the Constitution of Iraq on 15 October 2005, a general election was held on 15 December to elect the permanent 275-member Iraqi Council of Representatives.
The elections took place under a list system, whereby voters chose from a list of parties and coalitions. 230 seats were apportioned among Iraq's 18 governorates based on the number of registered voters in each as of the January 2005 elections, including 59 seats for Baghdad Governorate. [ 16 ] The seats within each governorate were allocated to lists through a system of Proportional Representation. An additional 45 "compensatory" seats were allocated to those parties whose percentage of the national vote total (including out of country votes) exceeds the percentage of the 275 total seats that they have been allocated. Women were required to occupy 25f the 275 seats. [ 17 ] The change in the voting system gave more weight to Arab Sunni voters, who make up most of the voters in several provinces. It was expected that these provinces would thus return mostly Sunni Arab representatives, after most Sunnis boycotted the last election.
Turnout was high (79.6 The White House was encouraged by the relatively low levels of violence during polling, [ 18 ] with one insurgent group making good on a promised election day moratorium on attacks, even going so far as to guard the voters from attack. [ 19 ] President Bush frequently pointed to the election as a sign of progress in rebuilding Iraq. However, post-election violence threatened to plunge the nation into civil war, before the situation began to calm in 2007. The election results themselves produced a shaky coalition government headed by Nouri al-Maliki.
Iraqi parliamentary election, 2010 [ edit ] 
Main article: Iraqi parliamentary election, 2010 
A parliamentary election was held in Iraq on 7 March 2010. The election decided the 325 members of the Council of Representatives of Iraq who will elect the Iraqi Prime Minister and President. The election resulted in a partial victory for the Iraqi National Movement, led by former Interim Prime Minister Ayad Allawi, which won a total of 91 seats, making it the largest alliance in the Council. The State of Law Coalition, led by incumbent Prime Minister Nouri Al-Maliki, was the second largest grouping with 89 seats.
The election was rife with controversy. [ 20 ] Prior to the election, the Supreme Court in Iraq ruled that the existing electoral law/rule was unconstitutional, [ 21 ] and a new elections law made changes in the electoral system. [ 22 ] On 15 January 2010, the Independent High Electoral Commission (IHEC) banned 499 candidates from the election due to alleged links with the Ba'ath Party. [ 23 ] [ 24 ] Before the start of the campaign on 12 February 2010, IHEC confirmed that most of the appeals by banned candidates had been rejected and 456 of the initially banned candidates would not be allowed to run for the election. [ 25 ] There were numerous allegations of fraud, [ 26 ] [ 27 ] and a recount of the votes in Baghdad was ordered on 19 April 2010. [ 28 ] On May 14, IHEC announced that after 11, 298 ballot boxes had been recounted, there was no sign of fraud or violations. [ 29 ] 
The new parliament opened on 14 June 2010. [ 30 ] After months of fraught negotiations, an agreement was reached on the formation of a new government on November 11. [ 31 ] Talabani would continue as president, Al-Maliki would stay on as prime minister and Allawi would head a new security council.
Iraqi parliamentary election, 2014 [ edit ] 
Main article: Iraqi parliamentary election, 2014 
Parliamentary elections were held in Iraq on 30 April 2014. The elections decided the 328 members of the Council of Representatives who will in turn elect the Iraqi President and Prime Minister.
Issues [ edit ] 
Corruption [ edit ] 
According to Transparency International, Iraq's is the most corrupt government in the Middle East, and is described as a ahybrid regimea (between a aflawed democracya and an aauthoritarian regimea). [ 32 ] The 2011 report "Costs of War" from Brown University's Watson Institute for International Studies concluded that U.S. military presence in Iraq has not been able to prevent this corruption, noting that as early as 2006, "there were clear signs that post-Saddam Iraq was not going to be the linchpin for a new democratic Middle East." [ 33 ] 
See also [ edit ] 
Assyrian politics in Iraq, Post-invasion Iraq, 2003apresent, Reconstruction of Iraq, Human rights in post-invasion Iraq, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ "Maliki gives up Iraq PM job to rival". http://www.aljazeera.com . , ^ Constitution of Iraq, Section 1, Article 2 , ^ Constitution of Iraq, Section 1, Article 1 , ^ Constitution of Iraq, Section 3, Chapter 1, Article 48. , ^ Constitution of Iraq, Section 3, Chapter 2, Article 63 , ^ Constitution of Iraq, Section 3, Chapter 3, Article 89 , ^ Constitution of Iraq, Section 3, Chapter 4, Article 102 , ^ Constitution of Iraq, Section 3, Chapter 4, Article 103 , ^ Constitution of Iraq, Section 3, Chapter 4, Article 104 , ^ Constitution of Iraq, Section 3, Chapter 4, Article 107 , ^ Constitution of Iraq, Article 121 , ^ Constitution of Iraq, Article 114 , ^ Muir, Jim (2006-10-11), Iraq passes regional autonomy law , Baghdad: BBC News , retrieved 2008-11-09 , ^ a b Draft of the Law on the Operational Procedures for the Creation of Regions , retrieved 2008-11-09 , ^ Iraqi parliament approves federal law , Reuters , 2006-10-11 , retrieved 2008-04-18 , ^ local election results , ^ "Guide to Iraq's election". BBC News . 2005-12-13 . Retrieved 2010-05-22 . , ^ Steele, Jonathan (2005-12-16). "Iraqis flock to polls as insurgents urge Sunnis to vote". The Guardian (London) . Retrieved 2010-05-22 . , ^ Knickmeyer, Ellen; Finer, Jonathan (2005-12-16). "Iraqi Vote Draws Big Turnout Of Sunnis". The Washington Post . Retrieved 2010-05-22 . , ^ Iraq Recount Mired in a New Dispute , New York Times , 3 May 2010 , ^ The 2005 Election Law Seen as Unconstitutional; Seat Distribution Key in Doubt , ^ Iraq Passes Key Election Law and Prepares for January Vote , ^ Iraqi election commission bans 500 candidates , BBC News, 15 January 2010 , ^ US to surrender Iraq to extremists , Press TV, 24 January 2010 , ^ Iraq election officials confirm Sunni candidate ban , Reuters, 13 February 2010 , ^ Chulov, Martin (16 March 2010), Iraqi elections hit with claims of fraud by opposing parties , London: The Guardian , ^ Iraq poll results delayed again, amid mounting fraud claims , Earth Times, 15 March 2010 , ^ Baghdad recount throws Iraq election wide open , Agence France Presse, 19 April 2010 , ^ No sign of fraud after Iraq vote recount , Press TV , ^ "Iraq merger forms big Shia bloc". BBC News . 11 June 2010. , ^ The New York Times http://www.nytimes.com/aponline/2010/11/10/world/middleeast/AP-ML-Iraq-Politics.html?partner=rss and emc=rss url= missing title (help) . , ^ "Did the wars bring democracy to Afghanistan and Iraq?". Costs of War . Brown University . Retrieved 18 July 2011 . , ^ Balaghi, Shiva. "The War on Terror and Middle East Policy Analysis". Costs of War . Brown University . Retrieved 18 July 2011 . , Further reading [ edit ] 
Who Are Iraq's New Leaders? What Do They Want? U.S. Institute of Peace Special Report, March 2006, BBC Report: Who's Who in Post-Saddam Iraq, Video Seminar on Iraq Coalition Politics: April 20, 2005, sponsored by the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament, and International Security at the University of Illinois., M. Ismail Marcinkowski, Religion and Politics in Iraq. Shiite Clerics between Quietism and Resistance , with a foreword by Professor Hamid Algar of the University of California at Berkeley. Singapore: Pustaka Nasional, 2004 (ISBN 9971-77-513-1), State and society in Iraq ten years after regime change: the rise of a new authoritarianism International Affairs (2013), . 
External links [ edit ] 
Iraq Government at DMOZ, Global Justice Project: Iraq, . 
v , t , e , . Iraqtopics , History 
Ancient Sumer, Akkadian Empire, Babylonia, Assyria, Neo-Assyrian Empire, Neo-Babylonian Empire, Achaemenid Assyria, Seleucid Babylonia, Parthian Babylonia, Sassanid Asorestan, . , 638a1958 Muslim conquest of Persia, Abbasid Caliphate, Ottoman Iraq (Mamluk dynasty), Mandatory Iraq, Kingdom of Iraq, Arab Federation, . , Republic 1958a68, 1968a2003, 2003a11, 2011a present , . Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party (Regional Command, National Command), Saddam Hussein, IranaIraq War, Invasion of Kuwait, Gulf War, Sanctions, Iraq War U.S. invasion, Iraqi insurgency, U.S. troop withdrawal, . , 2011apresent insurgency, . , Geography 
Al-Faw Peninsula, Al-Jazira, Districts, Euphrates, Governorates, Hamrin Mountains, Persian Gulf, Islands, Mesopotamia, Mesopotamian Marshes, Places, Shatt al-Arab, Syrian Desert, Tigris, Umm Qasr, Zagros Mountains, . , Lakes Habbaniyah, Hammar, Milh, Tharthar, . , Politics 
Armed Forces Army, Air Force, Navy, . , Constitution, Council of Representatives (legislative) , Elections, Foreign aid, Foreign relations, Government Cabinet, Presidency Council, President, Prime Minister, . , Human rights LGBT, . , Law, Police, Minorities, Political parties, Judiciary Supreme Court, Supreme Criminal Tribunal, Central Criminal Court, . , Wars and conflicts, . , Economy 
Central Bank, Dinar (currency) , Infrastructure, Oil Industry, Oil reserves, Reconstruction, Stock Exchange, Telecommunications, Transportation roads, . , . , Society 
Cuisine, Culture, Education schools, . , Health hospitals, . , Media, Music, Sports, . , Demographics Iraqi people diaspora, . , Languages Arabic, Aramaic, Kurdish, Persian, Turkmen, . , Minorities Armenians, Assyrians, Circassians, Kurds, Mandaeans, Persians, Turkmen, . , Religion Islam, Christianity, Mandaeism, . , . , Outline, Index, . Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Politics of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq , Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_Iraq and oldid=627877380" Categories: Politics of Iraq, . Hidden categories: Pages with citations having bare URLs, Articles with DMOZ links, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, aaaaa, DNDDDNNDD, EspaAol, Esperanto, UOOOU, FranAais, Italiano, Polski, PortuguAs, Svenska, . Edit links This page was last modified on 1 October 2014 at 22:13.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
