
Politics of the Republic of Ireland - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of the Republic of Ireland 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Ireland , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
the Republic of Ireland , Constitution Amendments, . , Presidency President Michael D. Higgins , Council of State, Presidential Commission, . , Government Cabinet Taoiseach: Enda Kenny TAnaiste: Joan Burton , Departments of State Minister of State , Civil Service, . , Oireachtas DAil Aireann Ceann Comhairle: SeAn Barrett , Seanad Aireann Cathaoirleach: Paddy Burke , Opposition Leader: MicheAl Martin , . , Judiciary Attorney General, Courts Supreme Court Chief Justice: S. Denham Court of Appeal High Court Court of Criminal Appeal Special Criminal Court Circuit Court District Court , . , Elections Constituencies, Political parties, Recent elections, . 
General 2002, 2007, 2011, . , Presidential 1997, 2004, 2011, . , Local 2004, 2009, 2014, . , European 2004, 2009, 2014, . , By-elections, . , Divisions Counties, Local government, . , Foreign relations IrelandaUnited Kingdom relations Politics of Northern Ireland , . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , Ireland is a parliamentary, representative democratic republic and a member state of the European Union. While the head of state is the popularly elected President of Ireland, this is a largely ceremonial position with real political power being vested in the indirectly elected Taoiseach (prime minister) who is the head of the government.
Executive power is exercised by the government which consists of no more than 15 cabinet ministers, inclusive of the Taoiseach and TAnaiste (deputy prime minister). Legislative power is vested in the Oireachtas, the bicameral national parliament, which consists of DAil Aireann, Seanad Aireann and the President of Ireland. The judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature. The head of the judiciary is the Chief Justice who presides over the Supreme Court.
While there are a number of political parties in the state, the political landscape has been dominated for decades by Fianna FAil and Fine Gael, historically opposed and competing entities, which both occupy the traditional centre ground. From the 1930s until 2011 they were the largest and second largest parties respectively. Both parties trace their roots back to the opposing sides of the civil war. The Labour Party, historically the state's third political party has only ever been in power when in coalition with either of the two main parties. In 2011 there was a major political realignment in Ireland, with Fine Gael becoming the largest party, Labour the second, and Fianna FAil dropping to third following a collapse in support, while Sinn FAin saw a substantial increase in support.
Contents
1 Main office holders , 2 Constitution , 3 President , 4 Executive branch , 5 Legislative branch 5.1 DAil Aireann , 5.2 Seanad Aireann , . , 6 Judicial branch , 7 Public sector 7.1 Civil service , 7.2 Public service , . , 8 Local government , 9 Political parties 9.1 Party details , 9.2 Party representation , . , 10 Foreign relations 10.1 Military neutrality , 10.2 International organisation participation , . , 11 Northern Ireland 11.1 North/South Ministerial Council , . , 12 See also , 13 Notes , 14 References , 15 Further reading , 16 External links , . 
Main office holders [ edit ] 
Office Name Party Since President, Michael D. Higgins, Independent, 11 November 2011, Taoiseach, Enda Kenny, Fine Gael, 9 March 2011, TAnaiste, Joan Burton, Labour Party, 4 July 2014, Constitution [ edit ] 
Main article: Constitution of Ireland 
The state operates under the Constitution of Ireland (Irish: Bunreacht na hAireann ) which was adopted in 1937 by means of a plebiscite. The constitution falls within the liberal democratic tradition. It defines the organs of government and guarantees certain fundamental rights. The Constitution can only be amended by means of a referendum. Important constitutional referendums have concerned issues such as abortion, the status of the Catholic Church, divorce, and the European Union.
President [ edit ] 
Aras an UachtarAin in Dublin, official residence of the President of Ireland Main article: President of Ireland 
The head of state is the President of Ireland. In keeping with the state's parliamentary system of government the President exercises a mainly ceremonial role but does possess certain specific powers. The presidency is open to all Irish citizens who are at least 35. They are directly elected by secret ballot under the alternative vote. A candidate may be nominated for election as President by no fewer than 20 members of the Oireachtas or by four or more of Ireland's 34 County and City Councils. A retiring President may nominate themselves as a candidate for re-election. If only one valid candidate is nominated for election, for example if there is consensus among the political parties to nominate a single candidate, it is unnecessary to proceed to a ballot and that candidate is deemed elected. The President is elected to a seven-year term of office and no person may serve more than two terms.
In carrying out certain of their constitutional functions, the President is aided by the Council of State. There is no Vice-President in Ireland. If for any reason the President is unable to carry out his/her functions, or if the Office of President is vacant, the duties of the President are carried out by the Presidential Commission.
Executive branch [ edit ] 
Government Buildings in Dublin Main article: Government of Ireland 
Executive authority is exercised by a cabinet known simply as the Government . Article 28 of the Constitution states that the Government may consist of no less than seven and no more than fifteen members, namely the Taoiseach (prime minister), the TAnaiste (deputy prime minister) and up to thirteen other ministers. The Taoiseach is appointed by the President, after being nominated by DAil Aireann (the lower house of parliament). The remaining ministers are nominated by the Taoiseach and appointed by the President following their approval by the DAil. The Government must enjoy the confidence of DAil Aireann and, in the event that they cease to enjoy the support of the lower house, the Taoiseach must either resign or request the President to dissolve the DAil, in which case a general election follows.
Legislative branch [ edit ] 
Leinster House in Dublin, seat of the houses of the Oireachtas Main article: Oireachtas 
Article 15 of the Constitution of Ireland established the Oireachtas as the national parliament of Ireland. The Oireachtas consists of the President of Ireland and two elected houses: DAil Aireann (the House of Representatives) and Seanad Aireann (the Senate). As the Oireachtas also consists of the President the official title of the two law making houses is the Houses of the Oireachtas. The DAil is by far the dominant House of the legislature. The President may not veto bills passed by the Oireachtas, but may refer them to the Supreme Court of Ireland for a ruling on whether they comply with the constitution.
DAil Aireann [ edit ] 
Main article: DAil Aireann 
Members of the DAil are directly elected at least once in every five years under the single transferable vote form of proportional representation from multi-seat constituencies. Membership of the house is open to all Irish citizens who are at least 21 and permanently resident in the State. The electorate consists of all Irish and British citizens resident in Ireland over the age of 18. Members of the DAil are known as Teachta DAla or TDs. Currently there are 166 TDs, of which one, the Ceann Comhairle (Chairman), is automatically returned at an election. The Taoiseach, TAnaiste and the Minister for Finance must be members of the DAil. All other members of the Government must be members of the DAil, however up to two members may be members of the Seanad. The DAil is the only House which can introduce and amend money bills (i.e. financial and tax legislation). Since the early 1990s no single party has had a majority in DAil Aireann, so that coalition governments have been the norm.
Seanad Aireann [ edit ] 
Main article: Seanad Aireann 
The Senate is a largely advisory body. It consists of sixty members called Senators. An election for the Seanad must take place no later than 90 days after a general election for the members of the DAil. Eleven Senators are nominated by the Taoiseach while a further six are elected by certain national universities. The remaining 43 are elected from special vocational panels of candidates, the electorate for which consists of the 60 members of the outgoing Senate, the 166 TDs of the incoming DAil and the 883 elected members of 5 city and 29 county councils. The Senate has the power to delay legislative proposals and is allowed 90 days to consider and amend bills sent to it by the DAil (excluding money bills). The Senate is only allowed 21 days to consider money bills sent to it by the DAil. The Senate cannot amend money bills but can make recommendations to the DAil on such bills.
Judicial branch [ edit ] 
The Four Courts in Dublin Main article: Courts of the Republic of Ireland 
Ireland is a common law jurisdiction. The judiciary consists of the Supreme Court, the High Court and other lower courts established by law. Judges are appointed by the President after being nominated by the Government and can be removed from office only for misbehaviour or incapacity, and then only by resolution of both houses of the Oireachtas. The final court of appeal is the Supreme Court, which consists of the Chief Justice, seven ordinary judges and ex officio the President of the High Court. The Supreme Court rarely sits as a full bench and normally hears cases in chambers of three, five or seven judges.
Both the Supreme Court and the High Court have the power of judicial review and may declare to be invalid both laws and acts of the state which are repugnant to the constitution.
Public sector [ edit ] 
See also: State-sponsored bodies of the Republic of Ireland 
The Government, through the civil and public services and state-sponsored bodies, is a significant employer in the state; these three sectors are often called the public sector . Management of these various bodies vary, for instance in the civil service there will be clearly defined routes and patterns whilst among public services a sponsoring minister or the Minister for Finance may appoint a board or commission. Commercial activities, where the state involves itself, are typically through the state-sponsored bodies which are usually organised in a similar fashion to private companies.
A 2005 report on public sector employment, showed that in June 2005 the numbers employed in the public sector stood at 350, 100; of these by sector they were 38, 700 (civil service), 254, 100 (public service) and 57, 300 (state-sponsored). The total workforce of the state was 1, 857, 400 that year, thus the public sector represents approximately 20f the total workforce. [ 1 ] 
Civil service [ edit ] 
Main article: Civil service of Ireland 
The civil service of Ireland consists of two broad components, the Civil Service of the Government and the Civil Service of the State . Whilst these two components are largely theoretical, they do have some fundamental operational differences. The civil service is expected to maintain the political impartiality in its work, and some sections of it are entirely independent of Government decision making.
Public service [ edit ] 
Main article: Public service of the Republic of Ireland 
The public service is a relatively broad term and is not clearly defined and sometimes is taken to include the civil service. The public service proper consists of Government agencies and bodies which provide services on behalf of the Government but are not the core civil service. For instance local authorities, Education and Training Boards and Garda SAochAna are considered to be public services.
Local government [ edit ] 
Main article: Local government in the Republic of Ireland 
Article 28A of the constitution of Ireland provides a constitutional basis for local government. The Oireachtas is empowered to establish the number, size and powers of local authorities by law. Under Article 28A, members of local authorities must be directly elected by voters at least once every five years.
Local government in Ireland is governed by a series of Local Government Acts, beginning with the Local Government (Ireland) Act 1898. The most significant of these is the Local Government Act 2001, which established a two-tier structure of local government. The top tier of the structure consists of 34 local authorities, of which 29 are County Councils corresponding to each of the Republic's 26 traditional counties (Counties Dublin and Tipperary having been divided into three and two council areas respectively). The remaining 5 top tier authorities are the five largest cities (Dublin, Cork, Galway, Limerick, and Waterford), each of which has a City Council with the same status as a County Council.
The second tier of local government, which only exists in certain urban areas, consists of the town councils. The towns of Kilkenny, Sligo, Drogheda, Clonmel, and Wexford use the title of "Borough Council" instead of "Town Council", but they have no additional responsibilities. Local government bodies have responsibility for such matters as planning, environmental protection, roads, public water supply, sanitation and libraries.
Political parties [ edit ] 
For other political parties see Political parties in the Republic of Ireland. An overview on elections and election results is included in Elections in the Republic of Ireland. 
A number of political parties are represented in the DAil and coalition governments are common. The Irish electoral system has been characterised by the two and a half party system, with two large catch all parties dominating. This changed after the 2011 Irish General Election, following the large drop in support for Fianna FAil and the rise in support for other parties.
The current largest party in the state is Fine Gael, which has its origins in the pro-treaty movement of Michael Collins in the Irish Civil War. Traditionally the party of law and order, it is associated with strong belief in pro-enterprise and reward. Despite expressions of Social Democracy by previous leader Garrett Fitzgerald, today, it remains a Christian democratic, economically liberal party along European lines, with a strongly pro-European outlook. Fine Gael was formed out of a merger of Cumann na nGaedheal, the Centre Party and the Blueshirts. In recent years it has generally been associated with a liberal outlook. It has formed government in the periods 1922a32 (Cumann na nGaedheal), 1948a51, 1954a57, 1973a77, 1981a82, 1982a87, 1994a97, and 2011 to present.
The second largest party in the state is the centre-left Labour Party which was founded by James Connolly and Jim Larkin in 1912. Labour have formal links with the trade union movement and have governed in seven coalition governments a six led by Fine Gael and one by Fianna FAil. This role as a junior coalition partner has led to Labour being classed as the half party of Ireland's two and a half party system.
Fianna FAil, a traditionally Irish republican party founded in 1927 by Aamon de Valera, is the third largest party. It first formed a government on the basis of a populist programme of land redistribution and national preference in trade and republican populism remains a key part of its appeal. It has formed government seven times since Ireland gained independence: 1932a48, 1951a54, 1957a73, 1977a81, 1982, 1987a94, and 1997a2011. It lost a huge amount of support in the 2011 general election.
The fourth largest party is Sinn FAin, established in its current form in 1970. The original Sinn FAin played a huge role in the Irish War of Independence and the First DAil. Fine Gael and Fianna FAil trace their origins to that party. The current day party has been historically linked to the Provisional IRA. The party is a Republican party which takes a more left wing stance on economics and social policy than the Labour Party.
The United Left Alliance was an electoral alliance consisting of the Socialist Party, the People Before Profit Alliance, and the Workers and Unemployed Action Group. It was formed recently in November 2010, although it has yet to be formally registered as a political party. The Socialist Party is made up of members of a Trotskyist faction within the Labour Party who were expelled in 1989.
A number of independent TDs such as Maureen O'Sullivan, Luke 'Ming' Flanagan, Mick Wallace, Finian McGrath, Catherine Murphy, John Halligan and Thomas Pringle largely hold left-wing views, while Shane Ross and Stephen Donnelly are more closely identified with the centre-right. [ 2 ] 
Party details [ edit ] 
Party Current Leader English translation
/ Name in Irish Founded Inaugural Leader Ideology Position International organisation EP Group Fine Gael, Enda Kenny, "Clan of the Gaels", 1933, Eoin O'Duffy, Christian democracy, Liberal conservatism, Centre-right , Centrist Democrat International, EPP, Labour Party, Eamon Gilmore , PAirtA an Lucht Oibre , 1912, James Connolly
James Larkin
William X. O'Brien, Social democracy, Third Way, Centre-left, Socialist International, S and D , Fianna FAil, MicheAl Martin, "Soldiers of Destiny" [ nb 1 ] , 1926, Aamon de Valera, Irish republicanism, Liberal conservatism, Populism, Centre-right, Liberal International, ALDE , Sinn FAin, Gerry Adams, "We Ourselves" [ nb 2 ] , 1905 / 1970 [ nb 3 ] , Arthur Griffith, Irish republicanism, Left-wing nationalism, Democratic socialism, Left-wing, none , GUE/NGL, United Left, none [ nb 4 ] , 2013, none , Democratic socialism, Far-left, none , none , Socialist Party, Joe Higgins, PAirtA SAisialach , 1996, Joe Higgins, Democratic socialism, Trotskyism, Far-left, Committee for a Workers' International, GUE/NGL , People Before Profit Alliance, none , 2005, none , Democratic socialism, Left-wing, none , none , Workers and Unemployed Action Group, SAamus Healy, 1985, SAamus Healy, Left-wing, none , none , Green Party, Eamon Ryan, Comhaontas Glas , 1981, none [ nb 5 ] , Green politics, Centre-left, Global Greens, Greens/EFA , Workers' Party, Mick Finnegan, PAirtA na nOibrithe , 1970 [ nb 6 ] , TomAs Mac Giolla , Communism, Irish republicanism, MarxismaLeninism, Far-left, Communist and Workers' Parties, none , Republican Sinn FAin, Des Dalton, Sinn FAin Poblachtach , 1986, RuairA A BrAdaigh, Irish republicanism, Aire Nua, Socialism, Left-wing, none , none , ^ More literally a Warriors of FAl , FAl being an ancient romantic name for Ireland. , ^ Another common translation, though not literal, is Ourselves Alone . , ^ The current party known as Sinn FAin broke from the party then known as Sinn FAin in 1970 and was initially commonly referred to as Provisional Sinn FAin . , ^ Registered Officers are Clare Daly, Joan Collins, Declan Bree and Pat Dunne. , ^ For the first twenty years of its existence, the Green Party did not have a national leader. Trevor Sargent was elected as the first national leader in 2001. , ^ The Workers' Party emerged as the majority faction from a split in Sinn FAin in 1970, becoming known as Official Sinn FAin . In the Republic of Ireland, it renamed itself as Sinn FAin The Workers' Party in 1977. In Northern Ireland, it continued with the Republican Clubs name used by Sinn FAin to escape a 1964 ban, and later as Workers Party Republican Clubs. Both sections adopted the current name in 1982. , Party representation [ edit ] 
Party Representation (as of October 2014) Oireachtas European Parliament Local councils DAil Aireann Seanad Aireann Fine Gael, 68, 18, 4, 235, Labour Party, 34, 11, 0, 51, Fianna FAil, 20, 14, 0, 267, Sinn FAin [ ni 1 ] , 14, 3, 3, 159, Socialist Party [ ni 2 ] , 2, 0, 0, 0, People Before Profit Alliance, 1, 0, 0, 14, Workers and Unemployed Action Group, 1, 0, 0, 1, Anti-Austerity Alliance, 1, 0, 0, 14, Green Party [ ni 3 ] , 0, 0, 0, 12, United Left, 0, 0, 0, 1, Workers' Party, 0, 0, 0, 1, Republican Sinn FAin, 0, 0, 0, 1, South Kerry Independent Alliance, 0, 0, 0, 1, ^ Sinn FAin also has 5 members of the UK House of Commons, 29 members of the Northern Ireland Assembly, 105 local councillors in Northern Ireland and 1 MEP representing Northern Ireland. , ^ Members of the Socialist Party contested the 2014 local elections as part of the Anti-Austerity Alliance. , ^ The Green Party also has one member of the Northern Ireland Assembly and 4 local councillors in Northern Ireland. , ead Summary of 25 February 2011 DAil Aireann election results Party
Leader
First
Pref votes
Pv
Swingr /> TDs
Change
(since 2007) f
seats
, Fine Gael, Kenny, Enda Enda Kenny , 801, 628, 36.1, 8.8, 76 , 25, 45.8, Labour Party, Gilmore, Eamon Eamon Gilmore , 431, 796, 19.5, 9.3, 37 , 17, 22.3, Fianna FAil [ nb 1 ] , Martin, MicheAl MicheAl Martin , 387, 358, 17.5, 24.2, 20 , 57, 12.0, Sinn FAin, Adams, Gerry Gerry Adams , 220, 661, 9.9, 3.0, 14 , 10, 8.4, Socialist Party, None , 26, 770, 1.2, 0.6, 2 , 2, 1.2, People Before Profit, None , 21, 551, 1.0, 0.6, 2 , 2, 1.2, WUAG, Healy, SAamus SAamus Healy , 8, 818, 0.4, 0.1, 1 , 1, 0.6, Green Party, Gormley, John John Gormley , 41, 039, 1.8, 2.9, 0 , 6, 0, South Kerry Independent, Gleeson, Michael Michael Gleeson , 4, 939, 0.2, 0.2, 0 , 0, Workers' Party, Finnegan, Mick Mick Finnegan , 3, 056, 0.1, 0, 0 , 0, Christian Solidarity, Greene, Richard Richard Greene , 2, 102, 0.1, 0, 0 , 0, FAs Nua, None , 938, 0, 0 , 0, Independent, a [ nb 2 ] , 269, 703, 12.1, 6.9, 14 , 9, 8.4, Total 2, 220, 359 100 166 Turnout 70.0th> 
The United Left Alliance (ULA) won 59, 423 votes (2.7and five seats. The ULA comprised the Socialist Party, the People Before Profit Alliance, the Workers and Unemployed Action Group and independent candidate Declan Bree (2, 284 votes).
Independents include New Vision candidates (25, 422 votes, 1 seat) and People's Convention candidates (1, 512 votes).
Foreign relations [ edit ] 
Main article: Foreign relations of the Republic of Ireland 
Ireland's foreign relations are substantially influenced by its membership of the European Union, although bilateral relations with the United States and United Kingdom are also important to the country. It is one of the group of smaller nations in the EU, and has traditionally followed a non-aligned foreign policy.
Military neutrality [ edit ] 
Ireland tends towards independence in foreign policy, thus it is not a member of NATO and has a longstanding policy of military neutrality.
This policy has helped the Irish Defence Forces to be successful in their contributions to UN peace-keeping missions since 1960 (in the Congo Crisis ONUC) and subsequently in Cyprus (UNFICYP), Lebanon (UNIFIL), Iran/Iraq Border (UNIIMOG), Bosnia and Herzegovina (SFOR and EUFOR Althea), Ethiopia and Eritrea (UNMEE), Liberia (UNMIL), East Timor (INTERFET), Darfur and Chad (EUFOR Tchad/RCA). Irish Defence Forces do not deploy in Missions
International organisation participation [ edit ] 
The Republic is member of the Australia Group, [ 3 ] BIS, British-Irish Council, CE, Celtic League, EBRD, ECE, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICC, ITUC, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, International Maritime Organization, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, MINURSO, NAM (guest), NEA, NSG, OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNIKOM, UNITAR, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNTAET, UNTSO, UPU, WCO, WEU (observer), WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO, and the Zangger Committee.
Northern Ireland [ edit ] 
Northern Ireland has been a major factor in Irish politics since the island of Ireland was divided between Northern Ireland and what is now the Republic in 1920. The creation of Northern Ireland led to conflict between northern nationalists (mostly Roman Catholic) who seek unification with the Republic and Unionists (mostly Protestant) who opposed British plans for Irish Home Rule and wished for Northern Ireland to remain within the United Kingdom. After the formation of Northern Ireland in 1921 following its opt out from the newly formed Irish Free State, many Roman Catholics and Republicans were discriminated against. The abolition of Proportional Representation and the gerrymandering of constituency boundaries led to Unionists being over-represented at Stormont and at Westminster. Even James Craig who was prime minister of Northern Ireland boasted of his Protestant Parliament for a Protestant People. In the 1960s NICRA was set up to end discrimination between Catholics and Protestants. There was a massive backlash to this from sections of the Unionist community. This conflict exploded into violence in the late sixties with the beginning of the Troubles, involving groups such as the Provisional IRA, loyalist paramilitaries, the police and the British army, the latter originally drafted in to protect Catholic communities from loyalist violence. These clashes were to result in the suspension of the Stormont Parliament and unsuccessful efforts by the British Government to encourage a power-sharing Executive in Northern Ireland which were only realised following the Good Friday Agreement in 1998. The Troubles caused thousands of deaths in Northern Ireland but also spilled over into bombings and acts of violence in England and the Republic.
Since its foundation it has been the stated long-term policy of governments of what is now the Republic to bring an end to the conflict in Northern Ireland and to bring about a united Ireland. Northern Ireland has also, in the past, often been a source of tension between the Irish Government and the government of the United Kingdom. To find a solution to the Troubles the Irish Government became a partner in the Good Friday Agreement in 1998.
While Sinn FAin have long organised in both Northern Ireland and the Republic, Fianna FAil have recently opened a cumann' (branch) in Derry and begun recruiting members at Queen's University, Belfast although both are exteremely small.
North/South Ministerial Council [ edit ] 
Main article: North/South Ministerial Council 
Under the Belfast Agreement (also known as the Good Friday Agreement) and Article 3 of the constitution a North-South Ministerial Council and six North-South Implementation Bodies co-ordinate activities and exercise a limited governmental role within certain policy areas across the whole island of Ireland. The Implementation Bodies have limited executive authority in six policy areas. Meetings of the Council take the form of meetings between ministers from both the Republic's Government and the Northern Ireland Executive. The Council was suspended from 2002 to 2007. However, with the resumption of devolved government in Northern Ireland in May 2007, the Council has now re-assumed its duties.
See also [ edit ] 
Ireland, Elections in the Republic of Ireland, History of the Republic of Ireland, History of Ireland, List of Irish by-elections, Politics of Northern Ireland, Parliamentary Constituencies in the Republic of Ireland, . 
Notes [ edit ] 
^ Fianna FAil's total includes Ceann Comhairle SAamus Kirk, who was re-elected automatically. , ^ Elected independent candidates were Stephen Donnelly, Luke 'Ming' Flanagan (of New Vision), Tom Fleming, Noel Grealish, John Halligan, Michael Healy-Rae, Michael Lowry, Finian McGrath, Mattie McGrath, Catherine Murphy, Maureen O'Sullivan, Thomas Pringle, Shane Ross, and Mick Wallace. , References [ edit ] 
^ Central Statistics Office Public Sector Employment and Earnings (June 2005) , ^ http://cedarlounge.wordpress.com/2011/02/21/looking-left-next-friday/ , ^ AustraliaGroup.net a Participants , Further reading [ edit ] 
John Coakley and Michael Gallagher (Editors) Politics in the Republic of Ireland (Routledge, 2004) [1] [2], Sean Dooney and John O'Toole Irish Government Today (Gill and Macmillan Ltd., 1998) [3], Neil Collins and Terry Cradden Irish Politics Today (Manchester University Press, 2001) [4], Noel Whelan Politics, Elections and the Law (Blackhall Publishing, 2000) [5], . 
External links [ edit ] 
ElectionsIreland.org a Irish election results from 1920 to today., . 
v , t , e , . Ireland topics , Republic of Ireland topics, Northern Ireland topics, . , History , Timeline Prehistory, Protohistory, Early history, Gaelic Ireland/ Lordship of Ireland 800a1169, 1169a1536, . , Kingdom of Ireland 1536a1691, 1691a1801, . , United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland 1801a1923, . , United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland since 1922, . , Irish Free State (1922a1937), Ireland (since 1922), . , Events Battles of Tara/ Glenmama/ Clontarf, Norman invasion, Bruce campaign, Black Death, Tudor conquest, Desmond Rebellions, Spanish Armada, Tyrone's Rebellion, Flight of the Earls, Plantation of Ulster, 1641 Rebellion/ Confederate War, Cromwellian conquest/ Settlement of 1652, Williamite War, Penal Laws, First Great Famine, 1798 Rebellion, Act of Union 1800, 1803 Rebellion, Tithe War, Second Great Famine, Land War, Fenian Rising, Dublin Lock-out, Home Rule crisis, Easter Rising, War of Independence, Anglo-Irish Treaty, Civil War, The Emergency, IRA Northern Campaign, IRA Border Campaign, The Troubles, . , Other topics List of conflicts in Ireland, List of Irish tribes, List of High Kings, Gaelic clothing and fashion, List of World Heritage Sites in Ireland, . , Geography , Natural Climate, Coastline, Extreme points, Fauna, Islands, Loughs, Mountains, Rivers list, . , List of national parks of the Republic of Ireland/ in Northern Ireland, . , Human Architecture Notable buildings, Tallest buildings and structures, . , Cities, Counties, Demographics of the Republic of Ireland/ of Northern Ireland, Ports, Provinces, ROIaUK border, Towns, Tourist attractions, Transport, . , Politics , Ideologies Nationalism, Republicanism, Ulster loyalism, Unionism, . , Republic of Ireland Constitution, Economy Celtic Tiger, . , Education, Foreign relations, Government local, . , Oireachtas parliament DAil Aireann (lower house) , Seanad Aireann (upper house) , President, . , . , Northern Ireland Assembly D'Hondt method, . , Economy, Education, Government local, . , Peace process, . , Culture , Cuisine 
Food List of dishes, Barmbrack, Boxty, Champ, Coddle, Colcannon, Drisheen, Goody, Skirts and kidneys, Soda bread, Stew, Ulster fry, . , Drinks Coffee, Cream, Guinness, Mist, PoitAn, Whiskey, . , Dance Jig, Sean-nAs , Set dancing, Stepdance, . , Festivals Imbolc, Saint Patrick's Day, Bealtaine, The Twelfth, LAnasa, Rose of Tralee, Samhain/ Halloween, Wren Day, . , Languages Hiberno-English, Irish, Shelta, Ulster Scots, . , Literature Annals, Fiction, Gaeilge , Poetry, Theatre, Triads, . , Music Ballads, CAilA , Folk music session, . , Instruments, Rock music, Traditional singing, . , Mythology Cycles Fenian, Mythological, Ulster, . , Aos SA , Echtrai , Immrama , Tuatha DA Danann , Legendary creatures, . , People Anglo-Irish, Gaels Gaelic Ireland, . , Hiberno-Normans, Irish diaspora, List of Irish people, Travellers, Ulster Scots, . , Sport Association football, Camogie, Gaelic football, Gaelic handball, Hurling, Martial arts, Road bowling, Rounders, Rugby union, . , Symbols Brighid's Cross, ClAirseach , County coats of arms, Flags N. Ireland flags issue, . , Irish Wolfhound, National coat of arms, Red Hand, Shamrock, . , Other Calendar, Names, Place names in Ireland/ outside Ireland, Prostitution (Republic)/ in Northern Ireland, Public holidays in the Republic of Ireland/ in Northern Ireland, Public houses, . , Ireland portal , v , t , e , . Politics of Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland , Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , Wikimedia Commons has media related to Politics of the Republic of Ireland ., Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_the_Republic_of_Ireland and oldid=620865376" Categories: Politics of the Republic of Ireland, . Hidden categories: EngvarB from August 2014, Articles containing Irish-language text, Articles with hCards, Use dmy dates from August 2014, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DNDDDNNDD, AeAtina, Deutsch, EspaAol, FranAais, GAidhlig, Italiano, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, . Edit links This page was last modified on 12 August 2014 at 03:54.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
