
List of islands of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
List of islands of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
This is a list of islands of Russia . It includes all islands in Russia with an area greater than 3, 000 square kilometres (1, 158sqmi) and some of the more significant minor islands.
Atlasov Island from space, September 1992 Kunashir Island coastline: photo taken by Russian President Dmitry Medvedev in November 2010 The Shamanka DDDDDDD( ru ), a holy rock in Shamanism and one of the 9 most holy places in Asia, on the westcoast of Olkhon Aleksandry, part of Franz Josef Land, Atlasov Island, part of the Kuril Islands, Ayon, Belkovsky, part of the New Siberian Islands, Bely Island, in the Kara Sea, Bennetta, part of the New Siberian Islands, Big Diomede (Ratmanov Island), Bolotnyi ostov, Moskva River, Moscow city, Bolshevik Island, part of the archipelago of Severnaya Zemlya, Bolshoy Lyakhovsky, De Long, part of the New Siberian Islands, Dikson Island, in the Kara Sea, Ensomheden island, at the northern fringe of the Kara Sea, Georga, part of Franz Josef Land, Graham Bell Island, part of Franz Josef Land, Iony, Iturup (Etorofu), part of the Kuril Islands, claimed by Japan, Kolguyev, Komsomolets, part of the archipelago of Severnaya Zemlya, Kotelny Island, part of the New Siberian Islands, Kunashir, part of the Kuril Islands, Lisy Island, Mezhdusharskiy Island, part of the archipelago of Novaya Zemlya, Novaya Sibir, part of the New Siberian Islands, Novaya Zemlya, Oktyabrskoy Revolyutsii, part of the archipelago of Severnaya Zemlya, Olkhon, lake Baikal, Onekotan, part of the Kuril Islands, Rudolfa, part of Franz Josef Land, Paramushir, part of the Kuril Islands, Pioneer, part of the archipelago of Severnaya Zemlya, Popov Island, Russky Island, Sakhalin, Shaman-kamen, lake Baikal, Schmidt Island, Severny Island, part of the archipelago of Novaya Zemlya, Shiashkotan, part of the Kuril Islands, Shumshu, part of the Kuril Islands, Sibiryakova, ostov, Angara River in Irkutsk city, Simushir, part of the Kuril Islands, Solovetskiye, Urup, part of the Kuril Islands, Ushakov Island, Ushkanii ostrova, lake Baikal, Vasilievski ostov, St. Peterburg, Vaygach, Vilcheka, part of Franz Josef Land, Vize Island, Wrangel Island (Vrangelya), Yunosti Island, Angara River in the city of Irkutsk, Yuzhny, part of the archipelago of Novaya Zemlya, Zhokhov Island, part of the New Siberian Islands, . 
See also [ edit ] 
, Russia portal, Geography portal, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Islands of Russia ., v , t , e , . List of islands of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia , Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . List of islands of Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Malta, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia , Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Faroe Islands, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands , Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , This Russian location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v , t , e , . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=List_of_islands_of_Russia and oldid=613029389" Categories: Lists of islands by country, Islands of Russia, Lists of landforms of Russia, Russia geography stubs, . Hidden categories: Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, All stub articles, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
Boarisch, AeAtina, Deutsch, EspaAol, FranAais, iei, Norsk nynorsk, Polski, DNNNDDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 15 June 2014 at 16:29.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
