
Politics of Jordan - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of Jordan 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Jordan , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Jordan , Constitution Human rights, . , Monarchy King Abdullah II , Heir apparent Crown Prince Hussein , Hashemite Royal Family, . , Government Prime Minister (list) Abdullah Ensour , Cabinet, . , Legislature Parliament Senate, . President: A. al-Rawabdeh House of Representatives, . Speaker: Atef Tarawneh , . , Administrative divisions Governorates, Nawahi (districts) , . , Elections Recent elections General: 2010, 2013 (results) , . Local: 2007, . , Political parties, . , Foreign relations Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The politics of Jordan takes place in a framework of a parliamentary monarchy, whereby the Prime Minister of Jordan is head of government, and of a multi-party system. Jordan is a constitutional monarchy based on the constitution promulgated on January 8, 1952. As of 1 February 2011, Jordanian Prime Minister Samir Rifai resigned and King Abdullah asked Marouf al-Bakhit , a former prime minister, to form a new more democratic government.
Contents
1 Executive branch , 2 Legislative branch , 3 Judicial branch , 4 Political conditions , 5 Decentralization , 6 Corruption , 7 Administrative divisions , 8 International organization participation , 9 References , 10 External links , . 
Executive branch [ edit ] 
Main office holders Office Name Party Since King, Abdullah II of Jordan, Prime Minister, Abdullah Ensour, Independent, 11 October 2012, Executive authority is vested in the king and his cabinet. The king signs, executes, and vetoes all laws. The king may also suspend or dissolve parliament, and shorten or lengthen the term of session. A veto by the king may be overridden by a two-thirds vote of both houses of parliament at his discretion, most recently in November 2009. [ 1 ] He appoints and may dismiss all judges by decree, approves amendments to the constitution, declares war, and commands the armed forces. Cabinet decisions, court judgments, and the national currency are issued in his name. The Cabinet, led by a prime minister, was formerly appointed by the king, but following the 2011 Jordanian protests, King Abdullah agreed to an elected cabinet. The cabinet is responsible to the Chamber of Deputies on matters of general policy and can be forced to resign by a two-thirds vote of "no confidence" by that body.
Legislative branch [ edit ] 
Legislative power rests in the bicameral National Assembly. The National Assembly ( Majlis al-Umma ) has two chambers. The Chamber of Deputies ( Majlis al-Nuwaab ) has 150 members, elected for a four-year terms in single-seat constituencies with 15 seats reserved for women by a special electoral college. In addition nine seats are reserved for Christians and three for Chechens/Circassians. While the Chamber of Deputies is elected by the people, its main legislative abilities are limited to approving, rejecting, or amending legislation with little power to initiate laws. [ 1 ] The Assembly of Senators ( Majlis al-Aayan ) has 60 members appointed by the King for a four-year term. The Assembly of Senators is responsible to the Chamber of Deputies and can be removed by a "vote of no confidence".
Political factions or blocs in the Jordanian parliament change with each parliamentary election and typically involve one of the following affiliations; a democratic Marxist/Socialist faction, a mainstream liberal faction, a moderate-pragmatic faction, a mainstream conservative faction and an extreme right-wing faction, such as the Islamic Action Front).
The Jordanian Chamber of Deputies is known for brawls between its members, including acts of violence and the use of weapons. In September 2013 Representative Talal al-Sharif tried to shoot one of his colleagues with an assault rifle while at the parliamentary premises. [ 2 ] 
Judicial branch [ edit ] 
The judiciary is completely independent from the other two branches of the government. The constitution provides for three categories of courtsacivil (in this case meaning "regular"), religious, and special. Regular courts consist of both civil and criminal varieties at the first levelaFirst Instance or Conciliation Courts, second levelaAppelette or Appeals Courts, and the Cassation Court which is the highest judicial authority in the kingdom. There are two types of religious courts: Sharia courts which enforce the provisions of Islamic law and civil status, and tribunals of other religious communities officially recognized in Jordan.
Political conditions [ edit ] 
King Hussein ruled Jordan from 1953 to 1999, surviving a number of challenges to his rule, drawing on the loyalty of his military, and serving as a symbol of unity and stability for both the East Bank and Palestinian communities in Jordan. King Hussein ended martial law in 1991 and legalized political parties in 1992. In 1989 and 1993, Jordan held free and fair parliamentary elections. Controversial changes in the election law led Islamist parties to boycott the 1997 elections.
King Abdullah II succeeded his father Hussein following the latter's death in February 1999. Abdullah moved quickly to reaffirm Jordan's peace treaty with Israel and its relations with the United States. Abdullah, during the first year in power, refocused the government's agenda on economic reform.
Jordan's continuing structural economic difficulties, burgeoning population, and more open political environment led to the emergence of a variety of political parties. Moving toward greater independence, Jordan's parliament has investigated corruption charges against several regime figures and has become the major forum in which differing political views, including those of political Islamists, are expressed.
On February 1, 2012, it was announced that King Abdullah had dismissed his government. This has been interpreted as a pre-emptive move in the context of the Tunisian Jasmine Revolution and unfolding events in nearby Egypt.
Decentralization [ edit ] 
King Abdullah II and the Jordanian Government began the process of decentralization, with the Madaba governorate as the pilot project, on the regional level dividing the nation into three regions: North, Central, and South. The Greater Amman Municipality will be excluded from the plan but it will set up a similar decentralization process. Each region will have an elected council that will handle the political, social, legal, and economic affairs of its area. This decentralization process is part of Jordan's Democratization Program.
Corruption [ edit ] 
Further information: International rankings of Jordan 
According to Transparency International, Jordan is one of the most corrupt countries in the world. Jordan ranked 47th out of 180 nations in the Corruption Perceptions Index. The Constitution of Jordan states that no member of Parliament can have any financial or business dealings with the government and no member of the royal family can be in the government. However, corruption remains a problem in Jordan despite progress. Corruption cases are examined by the Anti-Corruption Commission and then referred to the judiciary for legal action. Corruption in Jordan takes the form of nepotism, favouritism, and bribery.
Administrative divisions [ edit ] 
Administratively, Jordan is divided into twelve governorates ( muhafazat , singulara muhafazah ), each headed by a governor appointed by the king. They are the sole authorities for all government departments and development projects in their respective areas:
Ajlun, Aqaba, Balqa, Karak, Mafraq, Amman, Tafilah, Zarqa, Irbid, Jerash, Ma'an, Madaba, International organization participation [ edit ] 
ABEDA, ACC, AFESD, AL, AMF, CAEU, CCC, CTBTO, EBRD, ESCWA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OIC, OPCW, OSCE (partner), PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNMOT, UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNTAET, UNWTO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, WTrO
References [ edit ] 
^ a b Freedomhouse.org http://www.freedomhouse.org/template.cfm?page=22 and year=2010 and country=7849 , ^ Tamer al-Samadi (25 September 2013). "Jordan MP Fires Kalashnikov In Parliament". Al-Monitor . Retrieved 13 October 2013 . , External links [ edit ] 
Constitution of Jordan, Jordan Government at DMOZ, . 
v , t , e , . Politics of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan , Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . Jordantopics , History Nabataeans, Hashemites, Islamic Empire (Caliphate) , Ottoman Empire, Arab Revolt, SykesaPicot Agreement, Mandatory Palestine, Emirate of Transjordan, ArabaIsraeli conflict 1948, 1967, 1973, . , IsraelaJordan Treaty of Peace, Palestine Liberation Organization, Black September, 2011 protests, . , Geography 
Cities, Dead Sea, Extreme points, Governorates, Mediterranean, Nahias , Nature reserves, Red Sea, River Jordan, . , Politics 
Cabinet, Constitution, Elections, Foreign affairs, Human rights LGBT, . , LGBT history, Kings, Law enforcement, Parliament, Political parties, Prime Minister list, . , . , Military Royal Jordanian Land Force, Royal Jordanian Air Force, Royal Naval Force, Royal Special Forces, Royal Maintenance Corps, General Intelligence Directorate, His Majesty's Special Security, King Abdullah Design and Development Bureau, Military ranks, Arab Legion, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Atomic Energy Commission, Central Bank, Defense industry, Globalization, International rankings, Oil shale, Telecommunications Internet, . , Tourism, Trans-Mediterranean Renewable Energy Cooperation, Water supply and sanitation, . , Transport Royal Jordanian Airlines, Airports, Aqaba seaport, Railways, . , Society 
Arabic language, Boy Scouts and Girl Guides, Demographics, Education universities University of Jordan, . , Ministry, . , Health hospitals, medical education, Private Hospitals Association, . , Public holidays, Religion Islam, Christianity Catholicism, . , Freedom of religion, . , . , Culture Art, Cinema, Cuisine, Media ATV, JRTV, newspapers, . , Music, Petra World Heritage Site, Sports, . , People King Abdullah I, King Talal, King Hussein, King Abdullah II, Queen Rania, Hassan bin Talal, . , Outline, Index, . Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_Jordan and oldid=624488805" Categories: Politics of Jordan, . Hidden categories: Articles with DMOZ links, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, aaaaa, DNDDDNNDD, FranAais, Italiano, Polski, PortuguAs, . Edit links This page was last modified on 7 September 2014 at 02:06.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
