
Politics of Kazakhstan - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of Kazakhstan 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (March 2012) , Kazakhstan , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Kazakhstan , Constitution Human rights , President (list) Nursultan Nazarbayev , Prime Minister Karim Massimov , Parliament Senate Mazhilis , Political parties, Recent elections Presidential 1999, 2005, 2011, . Parliamentary 2004, 2007, 2012, . , Administrative divisions Regions ( oblAstar ) Districts ( audandar ) , Foreign relations, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The politics of Kazakhstan takes place in the framework of a presidential republic, whereby the President of Kazakhstan is head of state and nominates the head of government. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the two chambers of parliament.
Contents
1 Executive branch , 2 Legislative branch , 3 Judicial branch , 4 Political parties and elections , 5 International organization participation , 6 See also , 7 References , 8 External links , . 
Executive branch [ edit ] 
Main article: Government of Kazakhstan 
Main office holders Office Name Party Since President, Nursultan Nazarbayev, Nur Otan, 16 December 1991, Prime Minister, Karim Massimov, Nur Otan, 2 April 2014, The president is elected by popular vote for a five-year term. The prime minister and first deputy prime minister are appointed by the president. Council of Ministers is also appointed by the president. President Nazarbayev expanded his presidential powers by decree: only he can initiate constitutional amendments, appoint and dismiss the government, dissolve Parliament, call referendums at his discretion, and appoint administrative heads of regions and cities.
The president is the head of state. He also is the commander in chief of the armed forces and may veto legislation that has been passed by the Parliament. President Nursultan Nazarbayev, who has been in office since Kazakhstan became independent, won a new 7-year term in the 1999 election that the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe said fell short of international standards. A major political opponent, former prime minister Akezhan Kazhegeldin, was prohibited from running against the president because he had attended an unauthorized meeting of "the movement for free elections". On top of this the election was unconstitutionally called two years ahead of schedule. Free access to the media is also denied to opposing opinions. In 2002 a law set very stringent requirements for the maintenance of legal status of a political party, which lowered the number of legal parties from 19 in 2002 to 8 in 2003. The prime minister, who serves at the pleasure of the president, chairs the Cabinet of Ministers and serves as Kazakhstan's head of government. There are three deputy prime ministers and 16 ministers in the Cabinet. Karim Massimov became the Prime Minister in April 2014.
Legislative branch [ edit ] 
The legislature, known as the Parliament ( Parliament ), has two chambers. The Lower House Assembly ( Mazhilis ) has 107 seats, elected for a four-year term, 98 seats are from party lists, 9 - from Assembly of People. All MPs are elected for 5 years. [ 1 ] The Upper House Senate has 47 members, 40 of whom are elected for six-year terms in double-seat constituencies by the local assemblies, half renewed every two years, and 7 presidential appointees. In addition, ex-presidents are ex officio senators for life. Majilis deputies and the government both have the right of legislative initiative, though most legislation considered by the Parliament is proposed by the government. Several deputies are elected from the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
Judicial branch [ edit ] 
There are 44 judges on the Supreme Court of Kazakhstan. There are seven members of the Constitutional Council. Out of the 7 members, 3 are appointed by the president.
There are local and oblast (regional) level courts, and a national-level Supreme Court. Local level courts serve as courts of first instance for less serious crimes such as theft and vandalism. Oblast level courts hear more serious criminal cases and also hear cases in rural areas where no local courts have been established. A judgment by a local court may be appealed to the oblast level. The Supreme Court hears appeals from the oblast courts.
The constitution establishes a seven member Constitutional Council to determine the constitutionality of laws adopted by the legislature. It also rules on challenges to elections and referendums and interprets the constitution. The president appoints three of its members, including the chair.
Under constitutional amendments of 1998, the president appoints a chairperson of a Supreme Judicial Council, which nominates judges for the Supreme Court. The Council consists of the chairperson of the Constitutional Council, the chairperson of the Supreme Court, the Prosecutor General, the Minister of Justice, senators, judges, and other persons appointed by the president. The president recommends and the Senate (upper legislative chamber) approves these nominees for the Supreme Court. Oblast judges (nominated by the Supreme Judicial Council) are appointed by the president. Lower level judges are appointed by the president from a list presented by the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry receives the list from a Qualification Collegiums of Justice, composed of deputies from the Majlis (lower legislative chamber), judges, prosecutors, and others appointed by the president. Under legislation approved in 1996, judges serve for life. [ 2 ] 
Political parties and elections [ edit ] 
For other political parties see List of political parties in Kazakhstan. An overview on elections and election results is included in Elections in Kazakhstan. Main article: Kazakhstan presidential election, 2005 
On December 4, 2005, Nursultan Nazarbayev was reelected in a land-slide victory. The electoral commission announced that he had won over 90f the vote. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) concluded the election did not meet international standards despite some improvements in the administration of the election. Xinhua News Agency reported that Chinese observers, responsible in overseeing 25 polling stations in Astana, found that voting in those polls was conducted in a "transparent and fair" manner.[1]
ead Summary of the 4 December 2005 Kazakhstan presidential election results Candidates and nominating parties Votes th> Nursultan Nazarbayev - Fatherland ( Otan ), 6, 147, 517, 91.15, Zharmakhan Tuyakbay - Coalition for a Just Kazakhstan ( Ediletti Kazakhstan Yuzhin ), 445, 934, 6.61, Alikhan Baimenov - Democratic Party of Kazakhstan Bright Path ( Qazaqstan Demokratiyalyk Partiyasi Ak Zhol ), 108, 730, 1.61, Yerassyl Abylkassymov - Communist People's Party of Kazakhstan ( Qazaqstan Kommunistik Khalkik Partiyasi ), 23, 252, 0.34, Mels Eleusizov - Tabighat, 18, 834, 0.28, Total (turnout 76.8/td> 6, 744, 267 , Source: Embassy of Kazakhstan in the United Kingdom, Main article: Kazakhstan legislative election, 2007 
ead Summary of the 18 August 2007 Assembly of Kazakhstan election results Parties and alliances Votes th> Seats Nur-Otan, 5, 174, 169, 88.05, 98, Nationwide Social Democratic Party ( Zhalpyulttyk Sotsial-Demokratiyalyk Partiya ), 271, 525, 4.62, 0, Democratic Party of Kazakhstan Ak Zhol ( Qazaqstan Demokratiyalyk Partiyasi Ak Zhol ), 192, 155, 3.27, 0, Auyl Social Democratic Party ( Auyl Sotsial-Demokratiyalyk Partiyasi ), 93, 023, 1.58, 0, People's Communist Party of Kazakhstan ( Qazaqstan Khalyk Kommunistik Partiyasi ), 77, 274, 1.31, 0, Party of Patriots, 44, 175, 0.75, 0, Rukhaniyat Party, 24, 308, 0.41, 0, Total (turnout 64.56/td> , 98, International organization participation [ edit ] 
In 1999, Kazakhstan applied for observer status at the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly. The official response of the Assembly was that Kazakhstan could apply for full membership, because it is partially located in Europe, but that they would not be granted any status whatsoever at the Council until their democracy and human rights records improved. Improvement in these areas has been made for in 2012, Kazakhstan was elected by United Nations members to serve on the UN Human Rights Council. [ 3 ] 
AsDB, CIS, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, ECO, ESCAP, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS (associate), ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, NAM (observer), NSG, OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, SCO, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)
See also [ edit ] 
Government of Kazakhstan, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan , ^ Republic of Kazakhstan, Embassy. "Kazakhstan Democracy" . Retrieved 2 April 2014 . , ^ "Results of the election of 18 members of the Human Rights Council held on 12 November 2012". United Nations. , External links [ edit ] 
Will Kazakhstan Be Next? - On Political Developments in Kazakstan by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Central Asia Commerce, . 
v , t , e , . Politics of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan , North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . Politics of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan , North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . Kazakhstantopics , History 
Prehistory Saka, Huns, . , Early history Tele, Rouran Khaganate, GAktArks, Kangar union, Kimek Khanate, Karluks, Oghuz Yabgu State, Xueyantuo Khaganate, Uyghur Kaganate, Kyrgyz Khaganate, Kara-Khanid Khanate, Mongol Empire, Chagatai Khanate, Golden Horde, White Horde, . , Since 1456 Kazakh Khanate, List of Kazakh khans, JAz, Russian Turkestan, Alash Autonomy, Kazakh ASSR, Kazakh SSR, Republic of Kazakhstan, . , By topic Postal, . , Geography 
Altay (Altai) Mountains, Aral Karakum, Aral Sea, Caspian Sea, Charyn Canyon, Kazakh Steppe, Khan Tangiri Shyngy, Kyzyl Kum, Lake Balkhash, Syr Darya, Tien (Tian) Shan, Ural River, Zhetysu, . , Subdivisions Cities and towns, Districts, Regions, . , Politics 
Constitution, Elections, Foreign relations, Government President, Prime Minister, . , Human rights LGBT, . , LGBT history, Law enforcement, Military, Parliament Mazhilis , Senate, . , Political parties, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Energy policy, National Bank, Stock Exchange, Telecommunications, Tenge (currency) , Transport, . , Culture 
Alphabet, Anthem, Clothing, Coat of arms, Cuisine, Flag, Kaznet (Internet) , Kazakhs, Media, Music, Sport, Television, Wedding ceremony, . , Demographics 
Education, Health, Language, . , Peoples Armenians, Azerbaijanis, Dungan, Germans, Greeks, Jews, Kazakhs, Koreans, Poles, Russians, Turks, Ukrainians, Uyghurs, . , Religion Islam, Christianity, Hinduism, Tengriism, Religious freedom, . , Outline, Index, . Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_Kazakhstan and oldid=611791422" Categories: Government of Kazakhstan, Politics of Kazakhstan, . Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from March 2012, All articles needing additional references, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
aaaaa, DNDDDNNDD, Deutsch, FranAais, aaaaaaa, ODDDOND, LietuviA, DNNNDDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 6 June 2014 at 07:58.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
