
KGB - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
KGB 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search This article is about the secret police of Russia. For other meanings see KGB (disambiguation). 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (May 2012) , Committee for State Security of the Soviet Union Komitet gosudarstvennoy bezopasnosti
KGB USSR
DDDDNDN DDNNDDNNNDDDDDD DDDDDDNDDNND
DDD DDDD, Lubyanka Building in 1991, Agency overview Formed March13, 1954 ; 60 years ago ( 1954-03-13 ) , Preceding agencies Ministry of Internal Affairs
Ministry for State Security, Dissolved November 6, 1991 (de facto)
December 3, 1991 (de jure), Superseding agency Inter-republican Security Service
Central Intelligence Service
Committee for State Border Guard, Type State committee of union-republican jurisdiction, Jurisdiction Soviet Union, Headquarters Lubyanskaya ploshchad, 2, Moscow, Russian SFSR, Motto Loyalty to the party - Loyalty to motherland
DDNDDNNN DDNNDD - DDNDDNNN DDDDDD , Agency executive Vladimir Kryuchkov (last), Chairman of KGB, Parent agency Central Committee of the Party
Council of Ministers of the USSR, Child agencies First Chief Directorate (foreign intelligence)
Second Chief Directorate (internal security and counterintelligence)
Eighth Chief Directorate (ciphering and government communication)
Chief Directorate of Border Forces, The 1954 ukase establishing the KGB. 
The KGB , an initialism for Komitet gosudarstvennoy bezopasnosti (Russian: DDDDNDIN DDNNDDINNNDDDDDD DDDDDDINDDNND (DDD) ; IPA: [kEmEEEtEet gEsEEdarstvEEnnEj bEEzEEpasnEstEE] ( listen ) , translated in English as Committee for State Security ), was the main security agency for the Soviet Union from 1954 until its collapse in 1991. Formed in 1954 as a direct successor of such preceding agencies as the Cheka, NKGB, and MGB, the committee was attached to the Council of Ministers. It was the chief government agency of "union-republican jurisdiction", acting as internal security, intelligence, and secret police. Similar agencies were instated in each of the republics of the Soviet Union aside from Russia and consisted of many ministries, state committees, and state commissions.
The KGB was a military service and was governed by army laws and regulations, similar to the Soviet Army or MVD Internal Troops. While most of the KGB archives remain classified, two on-line documentary sources are available. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Its main functions were foreign intelligence, counterintelligence, operative-investigatory activities, guarding the State Border of the USSR, guarding the leadership of the Central Committee of the Communist Party and the Soviet Government, organization and ensuring of government communications as well as combating nationalism, dissent, and anti-Soviet activities.
After the dissolution of the USSR, the KGB was split into the Federal Security Service and the Foreign Intelligence Service of the Russian Federation.
After breaking away from the Republic of Georgia in the early 1990s with Russian help, the self-proclaimed Republic of South Ossetia established its own KGB (keeping this unreformed name). [ 3 ] 
Contents
1 Mode of operation , 2 History , 3 In the US 3.1 World War interrogation , 3.2 During the Cold War , . , 4 In the Soviet Bloc , 5 Suppressing internal dissent , 6 Notable operations 6.1 Bangladesh , 6.2 Afghanistan , 6.3 India , . , 7 August 1991 coup , 8 Organization 8.1 Republican affiliations , 8.2 Leadership , 8.3 Directorates , 8.4 Other units , . , 9 List of chairmen , 10 Insignia , 11 See also , 12 Notes , 13 References , 14 Further reading , 15 External links , . 
Mode of operation [ edit ] 
A 1983 Time magazine article reported that the KGB was the world's most effective information-gathering organization. [ 4 ] It operated legal and illegal espionage residencies in target countries where a legal resident gathered intelligence while based at the Soviet Embassy or Consulate, and, if caught, was protected from prosecution by diplomatic immunity. At best, the compromised spy was either returned to the Soviet Union or was declared persona non grata and expelled by the government of the target country. The illegal resident spied, unprotected by diplomatic immunity, and worked independently of Soviet diplomatic and trade missions, ( cf. the non-official cover CIA officer). In its early history, the KGB valued illegal spies more than legal spies, because illegal spies infiltrated their targets with greater ease. The KGB residency executed four types of espionage: (i) political, (ii) economic, (iii) military-strategic, and (iv) disinformation, effected with "active measures" (PR Line), counter-intelligence and security (KR Line), and scientificatechnological intelligence (X Line); quotidian duties included SIGINT (RP Line) and illegal support (N Line). [ 5 ] 
The KGB classified its spies as agents (intelligence providers) and controllers (intelligence relayers). The false-identity or legend assumed by a USSR-born illegal spy was elaborate, using the life of either a "live double" (participant to the fabrications) or a "dead double" (whose identity is tailored to the spy). The agent then substantiated his or her legend by living it in a foreign country, before emigrating to the target country, thus the sending of US-bound illegal residents via the Soviet embassy in Ottawa, Canada. Tradecraft included stealing and photographing documents, code-names, contacts, targets, and dead letter boxes, and working as a "friend of the cause" or agents provocateur , who would infiltrate the target group to sow dissension, influence policy, and arrange kidnappings and assassinations. [ 6 ] 
History [ edit ] 
For more details on this topic, see Chronology of Soviet secret police agencies. See also: Cheka, OGPU, NKGB and Ministry for State Security (Soviet Union) KGB Regulation seen in Museum of Genocide Victims Vilnius 
Mindful of ambitious spy chiefsaand after deposing Premier Nikita KhrushchevaSecretary Leonid Brezhnev and the CPSU knew to manage the next over-ambitious KGB Chairman, Aleksandr Shelepin (1958a61), who facilitated Brezhnev's palace coup d'Atat against Khrushchev in 1964 (despite Shelepin not then being in the KGB). With political reassignments, Shelepin protAgA Vladimir Semichastny (1961a67) was sacked as KGB Chairman, and Shelepin himself was demoted from chairman of the Committee of Party and State Control to Trade Union Council chairman.
In the 1980s, the glasnost liberalisation of Soviet society provoked KGB Chairman Vladimir Kryuchkov (1988a91) to lead the August 1991 Soviet coup d'Atat attempt to depose President Mikhail Gorbachev. The thwarted coup d'Atat ended the KGB on 6 November 1991. The KGB's successors are the secret police agency FSB (Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation) and the espionage agency SVR (Foreign Intelligence Service). .
In the US [ edit ] 
World War interrogation [ edit ] 
The GRU (military intelligence) recruited the ideological agents Julian Wadleigh and Alger Hiss, who became State Department diplomats in 1936. The NKVD's first US operation was establishing the legal residency of Boris Bazarov and the illegal residency of Iskhak Akhmerov in 1934. [ 7 ] Throughout, the Communist Party USA (CPUSA) and its General Secretary Earl Browder, helped NKVD recruit Americans, working in government, business, and industry.
Other important, low-level and high-level ideological agents were the diplomats Laurence Duggan and Michael Whitney Straight in the State Department, the statistician Harry Dexter White in the Treasury Department, the economist Lauchlin Currie (an FDR advisor), and the "Silvermaster Group", headed by statistician Greg Silvermaster, in the Farm Security Administration and the Board of Economic Warfare. [ 8 ] Moreover, when Whittaker Chambers, formerly Alger Hiss's courier, approached the Roosevelt Governmentato identify the Soviet spies Duggan, White, and othersahe was ignored. Hence, during the Second World War (1939a45)aat the Tehran (1943), Yalta (1945), and Potsdam (1945) conferencesaBig Three Ally Joseph Stalin of the USSR, was better informed about the war affairs of his US and UK allies than they were about his. [ 9 ] 
Soviet espionage succeeded most in collecting scientific and technologic intelligence about advances in jet propulsion, radar, and encryption, which impressed Moscow, but stealing atomic secrets was the capstone of NKVD espionage against AngloaAmerican science and technology. To wit, British Manhattan Project team physicist Klaus Fuchs (GRU 1941) was the main agent of the Rosenberg spy ring. [ 10 ] In 1944, the New York City residency infiltrated the top secret Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico, by recruiting Theodore Hall, a nineteen-year-old Harvard physicist. [ 11 ] [ 12 ] 
During the Cold War [ edit ] 
The KGB failed to rebuild most of its US illegal resident networks. The aftermath of the Second Red Scare (1947a57), McCarthyism, and the destruction of the CPUSA hampered recruitment. The last major illegal resident, Rudolf Abel ("Willie" Vilyam Fisher), was betrayed by his assistant, Reino HAyhAnen, in 1957. [ 13 ] 
Recruitment then emphasised mercenary agents, an approach especially successful [ citation needed ] [ quantify ] in scientific and technical espionageabecause private industry practiced lax internal security, unlike the US Government. In late 1967, the notable KGB success was the walk-in recruitment of US Navy Chief Warrant Officer John Anthony Walker who individually and via the Walker Spy Ring for eighteen years enabled Soviet Intelligence to decipher some one million US Navy messages, and track the US Navy. [ 14 ] 
In the late Cold War, the KGB was successful with intelligence coups in the cases of the mercenary walk-in recruits FBI counterspy Robert Hanssen (1979a2001) and CIA Soviet Division officer Aldrich Ames (1985a1994). [ 15 ] 
In the Soviet Bloc [ edit ] 
Vladimir Putin worked as low-ranking KGB officer in Dresden, East Germany during the 1980s. 
It was Cold War policy for the KGB of the Soviet Union and the secret services of the satellite states to extensively monitor public and private opinion, internal subversion and possible revolutionary plots in the Soviet Bloc. In supporting those Communist governments, the KGB was instrumental in crushing the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, and the Prague Spring of "Socialism with a Human Face", in 1968 Czechoslovakia.
During the Hungarian revolt, KGB chairman Ivan Serov personally supervised the post-invasion "normalization" of the country. In consequence, KGB monitored the satellite-state populations for occurrences of "harmful attitudes" and "hostile acts;" yet, stopping the Prague Spring, deposing a nationalist Communist government, was its greatest achievement.
The KGB prepared the Red Army's route by infiltrating to Czechoslovakia many illegal residents disguised as Western tourists. They were to gain the trust of and spy upon the most outspoken proponents of Alexander DubAek's new government. They were to plant subversive evidence, justifying the USSR's invasion, that right-wing groupsaaided by Western intelligence agenciesawere going to depose the Communist government of Czechoslovakia. Finally, the KGB prepared hardline, pro-USSR members of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia (CPC), such as Alois Indra and VasiA BiAak, to assume power after the Red Army's invasion. [ 16 ] 
The KGB's Czech success in the 1960s was matched with the failed suppression of the Solidarity labour movement in 1980s Poland. The KGB had forecast political instability consequent to the election of Archbishop of KrakAw Karol Wojtyla as the first Polish Pope, John Paul II, whom they had categorised as "subversive" because of his anti-Communist sermons against the one-party PUWP rAgime. Despite its accurate forecast of crisis, the Polish United Workers' Party (PUWP) hindered the KGB's destroying the nascent Solidarity-backed political movement, fearing explosive civil violence if they imposed the KGB-recommended martial law. Aided by their Polish counterpart, the SAuAba BezpieczeAstwa (SB), the KGB successfully infiltrated spies to Solidarity and the Catholic Church, [ 17 ] and in Operation X co-ordinated the declaration of martial law with Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski and the Polish Communist Party; [ 18 ] however, the vacillating, conciliatory Polish approach blunted KGB effectivenessaand Solidarity then fatally weakened the Communist Polish government in 1989.
Suppressing internal dissent [ edit ] 
Monument to victims of KGB / NKVD operations in Vilnius, Lithuania. 
During the Cold War, the KGB actively sought to combat "ideological subversion"aanti-communist political and religious ideas and the dissidents who promoted them, which was generally dealt with as a matter of national security in discouraging influence of hostile foreign powers.
After denouncing Stalinism in his secret speech On the Personality Cult and its Consequences in 1956, head of state Nikita Khrushchev lessened suppression of "ideological subversion". Resultantly, critical literature re-emerged, notably the novel One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich (1962), by Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn; however, after Khrushchev's deposition in 1964, Leonid Brezhnev reverted the State and KGB to actively harsh suppressionaroutine house searches to seize documents and the continual monitoring of dissidents. To wit, in 1965, such a search-and-seizure operation yielded Solzhenitsyn (code-name PAUK, "spider") manuscripts of "slanderous fabrications", and the subversion trial of the novelists Andrei Sinyavsky and Yuli Daniel; Sinyavsky (alias "Abram Tertz"), and Daniel (alias "Nikolai Arzhak"), were captured after a Moscow literary-world informant told KGB when to find them at home. [ 19 ] 
In 1967, the campaign of this suppression increased under new KGB Chairman Yuri Andropov. After suppressing the Prague Spring, KGB Chairman Andropov established the Fifth Directorate to monitor dissension and eliminate dissenters. He was especially concerned with Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn and Andrei Sakharov, "Public Enemy Number One". [ 20 ] Andropov failed to expel Solzhenitsyn before 1974; but did internally exile Sakharov to Gorky in 1980. The KGB failed to prevent Sakharov's collecting his Nobel Peace Prize in 1975, but did prevent Yuri Orlov collecting his Nobel Prize in 1978; Chairman Andropov supervised both operations.
KGB dissident-group infiltration featured agents provocateur pretending "sympathy to the cause", smear campaigns against prominent dissidents, and show trials; once imprisoned, the dissident endured KGB interrogators and sympathetic informant cell-mates. In the event, Mikhail Gorbachev's glasnost policies lessened persecution of dissidents; he was effecting some of the policy changes they had been demanding since the 1970s. [ 21 ] 
Notable operations [ edit ] 
Former head of Azerbaijan SSR KGB Heydar Aliyev, exaAzerbaijani President With the Trust Operation (1921a1926), the OGPU successfully deceived some leaders of the right-wing, counter-revolutionary White Guards back to the USSR for execution., NKVD infiltrated and destroyed Trotskyist groups; in 1940, the Spanish agent RamAn Mercader assassinated Leon Trotsky in Mexico City., KGB favoured active measures (e.g. disinformation), in discrediting the USSR's enemies., For war-time, KGB had ready sabotage operations arms caches in target countries., . 
In the 1960s, acting upon the information of KGB defector Anatoliy Golitsyn, the CIA counter-intelligence chief James Jesus Angleton believed KGB had moles in two key placesathe counter-intelligence section of CIA and the FBI's counter-intelligence departmentathrough whom they would know of, and control, US counter-espionage to protect the moles and hamper the detection and capture of other Communist spies. Moreover, KGB counter-intelligence vetted foreign intelligence sources, so that the moles might "officially" approve an anti-CIA double agent as trustworthy. In retrospect, the captures of the moles Aldrich Ames and Robert Hanssen proved that Angleton, though ignored as over-aggressive, was correct, despite costing him his job at CIA, which he left in 1975. [ citation needed ] 
In the mid-1970s, the KGB tried to secretly buy three banks in northern California to gain access to high-technology secrets. Their efforts were thwarted by the CIA. The banks were Peninsula National Bank in Burlingame, the First National Bank of Fresno, and the Tahoe National Bank in South Lake Tahoe. These banks had made numerous loans to advanced technology companies and had many of their officers and directors as clients. The KGB used the Moscow Narodny Bank Limited to finance the acquisition, and an intermediary, Singaporean businessman Amos Dawe, as the frontman. [ 22 ] 
Bangladesh [ edit ] 
On February 2, 1973, the Politburo, which was led by Yuri Andropov at the time, demanded that KGB members influence Bangladesh (which was then newly formed) where Sheikh Mujibur Rahman was scheduled to win parliamentary elections. During that time, the Soviet secret service tried very hard to ensure support for his Communist Party and his allies and even predicted an easy victory for him. In June 1975, Mujib formed a new party called Baskal and created a one-party state. Three years later, the KGB in that region increased from 90 to 200, and by 1979 printed more than 100 newspaper articles. In these articles, the KGB officials accused Zia Rahman and his regime of having ties with the United States. Due to the KGB infiltration, the Zia regime fell five and a half years later. During that time, the CIA founded Operation Arsenal which was meant to protect the current President of Bangladesh. [ 23 ] 
In August 1979, the KGB accused some officers who were arrested in Dhaka in an overthrow attempt, and by October, Andropov approved the fabrication of a letter in which he stated that Muhammad Ghulam Tawab, a Vice-Marshal at the time, was the main plotter, which led the Bangladeshi, Indian and Sri Lankan press to believe that he was an American spy. Under Andropov's command, Service A, a KGB division, falsified the information in a letter to Moudud Ahmad in which it said that he was supported by the American government and by 1981 even sent a letter accusing the Reagan administration of plotting to overthrow President Zia and his regime. The letter also mentioned that after Mujib was assassinated the United States contacted Khondakar Mustaque Ahmad to replace him as a short-term President. When the election happened in the end of 1979, the KGB made sure that the Bangladesh National Party would win. The party received 207 out of 300 seats, but the Zia regime did not last long, but fell on May 29, 1981 when after numerous escapes, Zia was assassinated in Chittagong. [ 23 ] 
Afghanistan [ edit ] 
KGB special operative Igor Morozov sits on top of the BTR-80 armored vehicle during his assignment to the Badakhshan province, c. 1982 
The KGB started infiltrating Afghanistan as early as April 27, 1978. During that time, the Afghan Communist Party [ 24 ] was planning an overthrow of the Shah. Under the leadership of Major General Sayed Gulabzoy and Muhammad Rafi (codenames of whom were Mammad abd Niruz), the Soviet secret service discovered the information about the imminent uprising. Two days after the uprising, the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan militant leader Nur Muhammad Taraki issued a notice of concern to the Soviet ambassador Alexander Puzanov and the resident of Kabul-based KGB embassy Viliov Osadchy that they could have staged a coup three days earlier hence the warning. On that, both Puzanov and Osadchy dismissed Taraki's complaint and reported it to Moscow, which broke a 30-year contract with him soon after. [ 23 ] [ 25 ] 
The centre then realized that it was better for them to deal with a more competent agent, which at the time was Babrak Karmal, who later accused Nur Muhammad Taraki of taking bribes and even having secretly contacted the United States embassy in Kabul. On that, the centre again refused to listen and instructed him to take resident position in the Kabul residency by 1974. On April 30, 1978, Taraki, despite being cut off from any support, led the coup which later became known as April Revolution, and became the country's President, along with Hafizullah Amin being Deputy-Prime Minister and Vice-President. On December 5 of that same year, Taraki compared the April Revolt to the Russian Revolution, which struck Vladimir Kryuchkov, the FCD chief of that time. [ 23 ] [ 25 ] 
On March 27 the following year, after losing the city of Herat, Amin became the next Prime Minister, and by July 27 became Minister of Defense as well. The centre though was concerned of his powers since the same month he issued them a complaint about lack of funds and demanded US$400, 000, 000. Furthermore, it was discovered that Amin had a Master's Degree from Columbia University, and that he preferred to communicate in English instead of Russian. Unfortunately for Moscow's intelligence services, Amin succeeded Taraki and by September 16 Radio Kabul announced that the PDPA received a fake request from Taraki concerning health issues among the party members. On that, the centre accused him of "terrorist" activities and expelled him from the Communist Party. [ 23 ] [ 25 ] 
The next day, General Boris Ivanov who was behind the mission in Kabul along with General Lev Gorelov and Deputy Defense Minister Ivan Pavlovsky visited Amin to congratulate him on his election to power. On the same day the KGB decided to imprison Sayed Gulabzoy as well as Muhammad Watanjar and Asadullah Sarwari but while in captivity and under an investigation all three denied the allegation that the current Minister of Defense was an American secret agent. The denial of claims was passed on to Yuri Andropov and Leonid Brezhnev, who as the main chiefs of the KGB proposed operation Raduga to save the life of Gulabzoy and Watanjar and send them to Tashkent from Bagram airbase by giving them fake passports. With that and a sealed container in which an almost breathless Sarwari was laying, they came to Tashkent on September 19. [ 23 ] [ 25 ] 
During the continued investigation in Tashkent, the three were put under surveillance in one of the rooms for as long as four weeks where they were investigated for the reliability of their claims by the KGB. Soon after, they were satisfied with the results and sent them to Bulgaria for a secret retreat. On October 9, the Soviet secret service had a meeting in which Bogdanov, Gorelov, Pavlonsky and Puzanov were the main chiefs who were discussing what to do with Amin who was very harsh at the meeting. After the two hour meeting they began to worry that Amin will establish an Islamic Republic in Afghanistan and decided to seek a way to put Karmal back in. They brought him and three other ministers secretly to Moscow during which time they discussed how to put him back in power. The decision was to fly him back to Bagram airbase by December 13. Four days later, Amin's nephew, Asadullah, was taken to Moscow by the KGB for acute food poisoning treatment. [ 23 ] [ 25 ] 
On November 19 of the same year, the KGB had a meeting on which they discussed Operation Cascade , which was launched earlier that year. The operation carried out bombings with the help of GRU and FCD. [ 25 ] On 27th of December, the center received news of the Darul Aman Palace, that KGB Special Forces Alpha and Zenith Group, supported by the 154th OSN GRU, also known as Muslim battalion and paratroopers from the 345th guards airborne regiment stormed the Tajbeg Palace in Afghanistan and killed Afghan President Hafizullah Amin and his 100a150 personal guards. [ 26 ] His 11-year-old son died due to shrapnel wounds. [ 27 ] The Soviets installed Babrak Karmal as Amin's successor. Several other government buildings were seized during the operation, including the Ministry of Interior building, the Internal Security (KHAD) building, and the General Staff building (Darul Aman Palace). Out of the 54 KGB operators that assaulted the palace, 5 were killed in action, including Colonel Grigori Boyarinov, and 32 were wounded. Alpha Group veterans call this operation one of the most successful in the group's history. In June 1981, there were 370 members in the Afghan-controlled KGB intelligence service throughout the nation which were under the command of Ahmad Shah Paiya and had received all the training they need in the Soviet Union. By May 1982 the Ministry of Internal Affairs was set up in Afghanistan under the command of KHAD. In 1983 Boris Voskoboynikov became the next head of the KGB while Leonid Kostromin became his Deputy Minister. [ 25 ] 
India [ edit ] 
, This section requires expansion. (July 2014) , In the 1950s, both the KGB and the CIA infiltrated, resulted in heavy conflict with India's intellignece agency RAW. RAW turned into a very effective agency since it recived training from both sides. India. [ 28 ] 
August 1991 coup [ edit ] 
Main article: 1991 Soviet coup d'Atat attempt 
On August 18, 1991 the Chairman of the KGB Vladimir Kryuchkov and 7 other Soviet leaders, the State Committee on the State of Emergency, attempted to overthrow the government of the Soviet Union. The purpose of the attempted coup d'Atat was to preserve the integrity of the Soviet Union and the constitutional order. President Mikhail Gorbachev was arrested and ineffective attempts made to seize power. Within two days, by 20 August 1991, the attempted coup collapsed. [ 29 ] 
The KGB was succeeded by the Federal Counterintelligence Service (FSK) of Russia, which was succeeded by the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation (FSB). [ 30 ] 
Organization [ edit ] 
Republican affiliations [ edit ] 
Head of KGB in Lithuania Eduardas Eismuntas, January 1990 Erkebek Abdulaev, author and former KGB lieutenant colonel 
The republican affiliation offices almost completely duplicated the structural organization of the main KGB.
KGB of Belarus / KDB of Belarus (see State Security Committee of the Republic of Belarus), KGB of Ukraine / KDB of Ukraine (see Committee for State Security (Ukraine)), KGB of Moldova / CSS of Moldova, KGB of Estonia / RJK of Estonia, KGB of Latvia / VDK of Latvia, KGB of Lithuania / VSK of Lithuania, KGB of Georgia, KGB of Armenia, KGB of Azerbaijan / DTK of Azerbaijan, KGB of Kazakhstan, KGB of Kyrgyzstan, KGB of Uzbekistan, KGB of Turkmenistan, KGB of Tajikistan, KGB of Russia (created in 1991), . 
Leadership [ edit ] 
The Chairman of the KGB, First Deputy Chairmen (1a2), Deputy Chairmen (4a6). Its policy Collegium comprised a chairman, deputy chairmen, directorate chiefs, and republican KGB chairmen.
Directorates [ edit ] 
Jubilee Congress. 70th Anniversary of the KGB, Soviet Union (1987). First Chief Directorate (Foreign Operations) a foreign espionage. (now the Foreign Intelligence Service or SVR in Russian), Second Chief Directorate a counter-intelligence, internal political control., Third Chief Directorate (Armed Forces) a military counter-intelligence and armed forces political surveillance., Fourth Directorate (Transportation security), Fifth Chief Directorate a censorship and internal security against artistic, political, and religious dissension; renamed "Directorate Z", protecting the Constitutional order, in 1989., Sixth Directorate (Economic Counter-intelligence, industrial security), Seventh Directorate (Surveillance) a of Soviet nationals and foreigners., Eighth Chief Directorate a monitored-managed national, foreign, and overseas communications, cryptologic equipment, and research and development., Ninth Directorate (Guards and KGB Protection Service) a The 40, 000-man uniformed bodyguard for the CPSU leaders and families, guarded critical government installations (nuclear weapons, etc.), operated the Moscow VIP subway, and secure GovernmentaParty telephony. Pres. Yeltsin transformed it to the Federal Protective Service (FPS)., Fifteenth Directorate (Security of Government Installations), Sixteenth Directorate (SIGINT and communications interception) a operated the national and government telephone and telegraph systems., Border Guards Directorate responsible for the USSR's border troops., Operations and Technology Directorate a research laboratories for recording devices and Laboratory 12 for poisons and drugs., . Former KGB officer Sergei Ivanov meets with former CIA director Robert Gates, April 2007 
Other units [ edit ] 
KGB Personnel Department, Secretariat of the KGB, KGB Technical Support Staff, KGB Finance Department, KGB Archives, KGB Irregulars, Administration Department of the KGB, and, The CPSU Committee., KGB Spetsnaz (special operations) units such as:, . Alpha Group, Vega Group, Zenith Group, . Kremlin Guard Force for the Presidium, et al. , then became the FPS., . 
List of chairmen [ edit ] 
Identity cards The Chairman of the KGB of the USSR Yuri Andropov. 
Chairman Dates Ivan Aleksandrovich Serov, 1954a58, Aleksandr Nikolayevich Shelepin, 1958a61, Vladimir Yefimovich Semichastny, 1961a67, Yuri Vladimirovich Andropov, 1967a1982 (Jan-May), Vitali Vasilyevich Fedorchuk, 1982 (MayaDec), Viktor Mikhailovich Chebrikov, 1982a88, Vladimir Aleksandrovich Kryuchkov, 1988a91, Vadim Viktorovich Bakatin, 1991 (AugaNov), Insignia [ edit ] 
, NKVD
, Komsomol KGB
, . 
See also [ edit ] 
, Soviet Union portal, Active measures, Chronology of Soviet secret police agencies, CIA, Eastern Bloc politics, FBI, Federal Agency of Government Communications and Information, Federal Protective Service, Federal Security Service (KGB successor), Foreign Intelligence Service, History of Soviet espionage, Index of Soviet Union-related articles, ISI, Ministry of Internal Affairs, Mitrokhin Archive, Numbers station, Presidential Security Service, RAW, Sanzo Nosaka, SMERSH, Venona, Department of Homeland Security, World Peace Council, . 
Notes [ edit ] 
^ Yale.edu, The KGB File of Andrei Sakharov, Joshua Rubenstein and Alexander Gribanov eds., in Russian and English. , ^ JHU.edu, archive of documents about Communist Party of the Soviet Union and KGB, collected by Vladimir Bukovsky. , ^ Konstantin Preobrazhensky (March 11, 2009). "KGB Backyard in the Caucasus" . Retrieved January 19, 2014 . , ^ John Kohan (February 14, 1983). "Eyes of the Kremlin" . Retrieved January 19, 2014 . , ^ The Sword and the Shield (1999) p. 38 , ^ "Soviet Use of Assassination and Kidnapping". CIA . Retrieved January 19, 2014 . , ^ The Sword and the Shield (1999) p. 104 , ^ The Sword and the Shield (1999) pp. 104a5 , ^ The Sword and the Shield (1999) p. 111 , ^ "The Strange Story of Klaus Fuchs, the Red Spy in the Manhattan Project" . Retrieved January 19, 2014 . , ^ "The November 12, 1944 cable: Theodore Alvin Hall and Saville Sax". PBS . Retrieved January 19, 2014 . , ^ Harold Jackson (November 15, 1999). "US scientist-spy who escaped prosecution and spent 30 years in biological research at Cambridge". The Guardian . Retrieved January 19, 2014 . , ^ "Rudolph Ivanovich Abel (Hollow Nickel Case)". FBI . Retrieved January 19, 2014 . , ^ The Sword and the Shield (1999) p. 205 , ^ The Sword and the Shield (1999) p. 435 , ^ Julius Jacobson (1972). Soviet Communism and the Socialist Vision . United States: New Politics Publishing. pp.339a352. ISBN0-87855-005-4. , ^ Matthew Day (October 18, 2011). "Polish secret police: how and why the Poles spied on their own people". The Telegraph . Retrieved January 19, 2014 . , ^ Christopher Andrew and Vasili Mitrokhin (1999/2001). The Sword and the Shield: The Mitrokhin Archive and the Secret History of the KGB . Basic Books. p.531. ISBN0-465-00312-5. Check date values in: date= (help) , ^ Thomas Crump (2014). Brezhnev and the Decline of the Soviet Union . Routelage. pp.1971a1972. ISBN978-0-415-69073-7. , ^ The Sword and the Shield (1999) p. 325 , ^ The Sword and the Shield (1999) p. 561 , ^ Tolchin, Martin (February 16, 1986). "Russians sought U.S. banks to gain high-tech secrets". The New York Times. , ^ a b c d e f g Christopher M. Andrew and Vasili Mitrokhin. The World was Going Our Way: The KGB and the Battle for the Third World . Basic Books/Penguin Books. pp.350a402. ISBN978-0-465-00311-2. , ^ Diego Cordovez (1995). Out of Afghanistan: The Inside Story of the Soviet Withdrawal . Oxford University Press. p.19. ISBN0-19-506294-9. , ^ a b c d e f g Christian F. Ostermann and Odd Arne Westad. "The KGB in Afghanistan". Cryptome . Retrieved January 28, 2014 . , ^ McCauley, Martin (2008). Russia, America and the Cold War: 1949a1991 (Revised 2nd ed.). Harlow, UK: Pearson Education. , ^ "How Soviet troops stormed Kabul palace". BBC. 27 December 2009 . Retrieved 1 July 2013 . , ^ Robert Baer (2002). See No Evil: The True Story of a Ground Soldier in the CIA's War on Terrorism . , ^ Victor Sebestyen (August 20, 2011). "The K.G.B.as Bathhouse Plot". International New York Times . Retrieved January 22, 2014 . , ^ "KGB's Successor Gets "Draconian" Powers". July 19, 2010 . Retrieved January 22, 2014 . , References [ edit ] 
Christopher Andrew and Vasili Mitrokhin, The Mitrokhin Archive: The KGB in Europe and the West , Gardners Books (2000) ISBN 0-14-028487-7; Basic Books (1999) ISBN 0-465-00310-9; trade (2000) ISBN 0-465-00312-5, Christopher Andrew and Vasili Mitrokhin, The World Was Going Our Way: The KGB and the Battle for the Third World , Basic Books (2005) ISBN 0-465-00311-7, John Barron, KGB: The Secret Work of Soviet Secret Agents , Reader's Digest Press (1974) ISBN 0-88349-009-9, Amy Knight, The KGB: Police and Politics in the Soviet Union , Unwin Hyman (1990) ISBN 0-04-445718-9, Richard C.S. Trahair and Robert Miller, Encyclopedia of Cold War Espionage, Spies, and Secret Operations , Enigma Books (2009) ISBN 978-1-929631-75-9, . 
Further reading [ edit ] 
DDDDDDDNND, D.D. (1990). DNNDDDDDD DDDDD: 1918 - 1956. DDNN NNDDDDNNDDDDDDD DNNDDDDDDDDN. D. 1 - 3. DDNDDD: DDDNN "DDDND DDN". (in Russian), Yevgenia Albats and Catherine A. Fitzpatrick, The State Within a State: The KGB and Its Hold on Russia a Past, Present, and Future Farrar Straus Giroux (1994) ISBN 0-374-52738-5., John Barron, KGB: The Secret Works of Soviet Secret Agents Bantam Books (1981) ISBN 0-553-23275-4, Vadim J. Birstein. The Perversion Of Knowledge: The True Story of Soviet Science. Westview Press (2004) ISBN 0-8133-4280-5, John Dziak Chekisty: A History of the KGB , Lexington Books (1988) ISBN 978-0-669-10258-1, Sheymov, Victor (1993). Tower of Secrets . Naval Institute Press. p.420. ISBN1-55750-764-3. , (Russian) DDNDDDDD, DDNDDDD DDDDDDDN (2004). DNDDDDDDNDDD DDDDDDNDDNDDDD NDNDDDDDDN DDD: 1954-1991. DDDDN-DDNDNDNND: DNDDN, 2004. ISBN 5-93518-035-9, DNDNDDD, DNDD (1973). ADDD D DDDNNDDDA. Published in ADDDND DNNDDDA a111, 1973 (in Russian), DNDNDDDD, D.D. (2004). DDDDNNDNN DDDNND N DDNDDDD DNDDDND // DNDNNNND DiNN, a 49, N. 2-3. (in Russian)(DDD DD DNDDNNNNDNDN NNNDDDDDDDDN DDDDNDDDNDDD DDNDD DD NDDDD DDDDDD, D DDNDNDD DDD - DDDD NDDDNNDDD DDNNDDND DNDNNNDDDDDN DNDNDD NDDDDDNDDNND. DDD DNDD NNNDDDDDDDD "DNNDNNDDD", DND DDDDND DDNDNDD NNNDN NDNDNNDDDDNN NDDDNNDDD D DDNDDNDNN DDDDDDDDNDN.) [1], DNDNDDDD, D.D. (2008). DDDDDDD NDDDD D.D. DNDNDDDD // DiNDDD DiDDDNDDDDDD DDNDiDDDDD NDDNNN "DNDDDD: DDDD, DNDNNNND, DiDDDDDN", N. 18(3), N. 148-153. (in Russian) (DD DNDDDDDDNDD DDD DDDD NDDDNNDD DDDDDDDD NNNNDDDD NNDDDDD), DNDNDDDD, D.D. (2011). DDDDNDD DD DNNDNDD DNDDDD (DDNDNDDDN DDN NNDNNDDDNDD) // DiNDDD DiDDDNDDDDDD DDNDiDDDDD NDDNNN "DNDDDD: DDDD, DNDNNNND, DiDDDDDN", 2011, N. 30(3), N. 25-45. (in Russian) [2], . 
External links [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to KGB ., For Cold War KGB activity in the US, see Alexander Vassiliev's Notebooks from the Cold War International History Project (CWIHP), Soviet Technospies from the Dean Peter Krogh Foreign Affairs Digital Archives, KGB Information Center, Federation of American Scientists , Viktor M. Chebrikov et al. , eds. Istoriya sovetskikh organov gosudarstvennoi bezopasnosti ("History of the Soviet Organs of State Security"). (1977), www.fas.harvard.edu, (Russian) Slaves of KGB. 20th Century. The religion of betrayal , by Yuri Shchekochikhin, . 
v , t , e , . Cold War , USA , USSR , ANZUS, NATO, Non-Aligned Movement, SEATO, Warsaw Pact, . , 1940s Dekemvriana, Yalta Conference, Operation Unthinkable , Potsdam Conference, Gouzenko Affair, Operation Masterdom , Operation Beleaguer , Operation Blacklist Forty , Iran crisis of 1946, Greek Civil War, Corfu Channel incident, Turkish Straits crisis, Restatement of Policy on Germany, First Indochina War, Truman Doctrine, Asian Relations Conference, Marshall Plan, 1948 Czechoslovak coup d'Atat, TitoaStalin split, Berlin Blockade, Western betrayal, Iron Curtain, Eastern Bloc, Western Bloc, Chinese Civil War (Second round), Malayan Emergency, . , 1950s Bamboo Curtain, Korean War, 1953 Iranian coup d'Atat, Uprising of 1953 in East Germany, 1954 Guatemalan coup d'Atat, Partition of Vietnam, First Taiwan Strait Crisis, Geneva Summit (1955), PoznaA 1956 protests, Hungarian Revolution of 1956, Suez Crisis, Sputnik crisis, Second Taiwan Strait Crisis, Cuban Revolution, Kitchen Debate, Bandung Conference, Bricker Amendment, McCarthyism, Operation Gladio, Iraqi July Revolution, "We will bury you", . , 1960s Congo Crisis, Sino-Soviet split, 1960 U-2 incident, Bay of Pigs Invasion, 1960 Turkish coup d'Atat, SovietaAlbanian split, Berlin Wall, Portuguese Colonial War (Angolan War of Independence , Guinea-Bissau War of Independence , Mozambican War of Independence) , Cuban missile crisis, Sino-Indian War, Sarawak Communist Insurgency, Iraqi Ramadan Revolution, 1963 Syrian coup d'Atat, Vietnam War, 1964 Brazilian coup d'Atat, United States occupation of the Dominican Republic (1965a66), South African Border War, Transition to the New Order, Domino theory, ASEAN Declaration, Laotian Civil War, 1966 Syrian coup d'Atat, Argentine Revolution, Korean DMZ Conflict, Greek military junta of 1967a74, USS Pueblo incident, Six-Day War, War of Attrition, Cultural Revolution, Prague Spring, Malaysia Communist Insurgency War, Invasion of Czechoslovakia, Iraqi Ba'athist Revolution, Goulash Communism, Sino-Soviet border conflict, Communist insurgency in the Philippines, Corrective Move, . , 1970s DAtente, Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, Black September in Jordan, 1970 Syrian Corrective Revolution, Cambodian Civil War, Realpolitik, Ping-pong diplomacy, 1971 Turkish coup d'Atat, Corrective Revolution (Egypt), Four Power Agreement on Berlin, 1972 Nixon visit to China, 1973 Chilean coup d'Atat, Yom Kippur War, Carnation Revolution, Strategic Arms Limitation Talks, Rhodesian Bush War, Angolan Civil War, Mozambican Civil War, Ogaden War, Ethiopian Civil War, Lebanese Civil War, Sino-Albanian split, CambodianaVietnamese War, Sino-Vietnamese War, Iranian Revolution, Operation Condor , Dirty War, Bangladesh Liberation War, Korean Air Lines Flight 902, Seven Days to the River Rhine, . , 1980s Soviet war in Afghanistan, 1980 and 1984 Summer Olympics boycotts, 1980 Turkish coup d'Atat, 1986 Black Sea incident, 1988 Black Sea bumping incident, Solidarity Soviet reaction, . , Contras, Central American crisis, RYAN, Korean Air Lines Flight 007, Able Archer 83, Star Wars, Invasion of Grenada, People Power Revolution, Nagorno-Karabakh War, Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, Fall of the Berlin Wall, Revolutions of 1989, Glasnost, Perestroika, . , 1990s Mongolian Revolution of 1990, Breakup of Yugoslavia, Dissolution of the Soviet Union, Dissolution of Czechoslovakia, . , Frozen conflicts Abkhazia, China, Korea, Nagorno-Karabakh, South Ossetia, Transnistria, Sino-Indian border dispute, . , Foreign policy Truman Doctrine, Marshall Plan, Containment, Eisenhower Doctrine, Domino theory, Hallstein Doctrine, Kennedy Doctrine, Peaceful coexistence, Ostpolitik, Johnson Doctrine, Brezhnev Doctrine, Nixon Doctrine, Ulbricht Doctrine, Carter Doctrine, Reagan Doctrine, Rollback, Sovereignty of Puerto Rico during the Cold War, . , Ideologies Capitalism Chicago school, Keynesianism, Monetarism, Neoclassical economics, Reaganomics, Supply-side economics, Thatcherism, . , . Communism MarxismaLeninism, Castroism, Eurocommunism, Guevarism, Hoxhaism, Juche, Maoism, Naxalism, Stalinism, Titoism, . , . Liberal democracy, Social democracy, . , Organizations ASEAN, CIA, Comecon, EEC, KGB , Non-Aligned Movement, SAARC, Safari Club, MI6, Stasi, . , Propaganda Active measures, Izvestia , Pravda , Crusade for Freedom, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Red Scare, TASS, Voice of America, Voice of Russia, . , Races Arms race, Nuclear arms race, Space Race, . , See also Brinkmanship, NATOaRussia relations, Soviet espionage in U.S., Russian espionage in U.S., Soviet UnionaUnited States relations, USaSoviet summits, . , Category , Portal, Timeline, List of conflicts, . , v , t , e , . Agencies and offices of the Union government of the Soviet Union , All-Union President and Vice President of the Soviet Union (list), Presidential Council, State Council, Security Council, Premiers, . , Ministries Agricultural Products Procurement, Agriculture and Food, Assembling and Special Construction, Armament, Automobile and Agricultural Machine Building, Aviation Industry, Building Materials Industry, Chemical Industry, Chemical and Oil Machinery Building, Coal Industry, Cellulose and Paper Industry, Civil Aviation, Coal Industry, Commerce, Communications, Communication Equipment Industry, Construction, Construction of Fuel Industry, Construction of Heavy Industry, Construction of Oil and Gas Industry, Construction of Petrochemical Machinery, Construction of Power Plants, Construction of Road Building and Communal Machines, Construction of Tool-Machines, Cotton, Culture, Defense, Defense Industry, Economy, Education, Electrical Engineering, Electrical Power and Electrification, Electronics Industry, Electrotechnical Industry, Environmental Protection, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ferrous Metallurgy, Finance, Fish Industry, Foreign Economic Relations, Forestry, Forestry Industry, Fruits and Vegetables, Gas Industry, General Machine Building, Geology, Grain Products, Health, Housing and Architecture, Heavy Machine Building, Heavy and Transport Machines Construction, High Education, Industrial Construction, Installation and Special Construction Work, Instrument-Making, Automation and Control Systems, Interior, Iron and Steel, Justice, Light Industry, Tool and Tool Building Industry, Land Reclamation and Water Resources, Machine Building, Machine Building for Animal Husbandry and Fodder Products, Machine Building for Light and Food Industry, Machine Tool and Tool Building Industry, Machinery for Stock Raising and Feeding, Manufacture of Communication Media, Meat and Dairy Industry, Medical Industry, Medical and Microbiologiacal Industry, Medium Machine Building, Merchant Marine, Mineral Fertilizer Production, Metallurgy, Non-Ferrous Metallurgy, Nuclear Power Industry, Oil Industry, Oil and Gas Industry, Oil Processing and Petrochemical Industry, Power and Electrification, Pulp and Paper Industry, Radio Industry, Railways, Rubber Industry, Shipbuilding, State Farms, State Security, Technical Cultivation, Textile Industry, Timber Industry, Timber, Paper and Wood Processing Industry, Tool and Tool Building Industry, Trade, Home, Tractors and Agricultural Machines, Transport Construction, Urban Construction, without Portfolio, . , Regional ministries Construction in the Eastern Regions, Construction in the Far East and Transbaikal Regions, Construction in the Northern and Western Regions, Construction in the Southern Regions, Construction in the Urals and West Sibirian Regions, . , State Committees
and commissions Building Materials, Cinematography, Construction, Defense, Defense Technology, Fuel Industry, Labour and Social Problems, Logistics, People's Control, Prices, Publishing, Metallurgy, State of Emergency, Science and Technology, Standards and Product Quality Management, State Planning, State Security , Statistics, Television and Radio, Timber and Paper Industry, Transport Construction, . , v , t , e , . Secret police agencies in the Eastern Bloc , Iron Curtain, Telephone tapping in the Eastern Bloc, Berlin Wall, Inner German border, . , Soviet Union Extraordinary Commission (Cheka), State Political Directorate (GPU), Joint State Political Directorate (OGPU), People's Commissariat for Internal Affairs (NKVD), Main Directorate of State Security (GUGB), People's Commissariat for State Security (NKGB), Ministry for State Security (MGB), Committee for State Security (KGB) , . , Socialist People's Republic of Albania Directorate of State Security (Sigurimi), . , People's Republic of Bulgaria Committee for State Security (DS), . , Czechoslovak Socialist Republic State Security (StB), . , German Democratic Republic Ministry for State Security (Stasi), . , Hungarian People's Republic State Protection Authority (AVH), . , People's Republic of Poland Ministry of Public Security (MBP), Security Service (SB), . , Socialist Republic of Romania Department of State Security (Securitate), . , Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia Department of State Security (UDBA), . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=KGB and oldid=630976677" Categories: KGB, Government agencies established in 1954, Government agencies disestablished in 1991, Defunct intelligence agencies, Eastern Bloc, Law enforcement in communist states, 1954 establishments in the Soviet Union, . Hidden categories: CS1 errors: dates, Articles needing additional references from May 2012, All articles needing additional references, Articles containing Russian-language text, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from April 2010, Articles with unsourced statements from October 2009, Articles to be expanded from July 2014, All articles to be expanded, Articles with Russian-language external links, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, AzErbaycanca, aaaaa, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, DNDDDNNDD, Brezhoneg, CatalA, Cebuano, AeAtina, Dansk, Deutsch, Eesti, IIIIIIII, EspaAol, Esperanto, Euskara, UOOOU, FranAais, Frysk, Gaeilge, Galego, iei, aaaaaa, Hrvatski, Bahasa Indonesia, Aslenska, Italiano, aaaaaaa, KurdA, Latina, LatvieAu, LietuviA, Magyar, DDDDDDDNDD, aaaaaa, UOOU, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, Sicilianu, Simple English, SlovenAina, SlovenAAina, DNDNDD / srpski, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Suomi, Svenska, aaaaa, aaa, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, OOOU, Tiang Viat, O, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 24 October 2014 at 20:30.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
