
Languages of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Languages of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Languages of Russia Official languages Russian official throughout nation; [ 1 ] twenty-seven others co-official in various regions, Main languages Russian, Main foreign languages 
15ave foreign language knowledge [ 2 ] 
English (78ut of all foreign language speakers, i.e. 11.7f the population), German (16/li> French (4/li> Turkish (2/li> , Sign languages Russian Sign Language, Common keyboard layouts Russian keyboard
, Part of a series on the, Culture of Russia , History People Languages Traditions Mythology and folklore Mythology, Folklore, . , Cuisine Festivals Public holidays, . , Religion Art Architecture, . , Literature Music and performing arts Music, . , Media Television, Cinema, . , Sport Monuments World Heritage Sites, . , Symbols Flag, Coat of arms, Cultural icons, . , Russia portal, . , v , t , e , . , Of all the languages of Russia , Russian is the only official language. There are 35 different languages which are considered official languages in various regions of Russia, along with Russian. There are over 100 minority languages spoken in Russia today. [ 3 ] 
Contents
1 History , 2 Official languages , 3 Unofficial languages , 4 Endangered languages in Russia 4.1 Languages near extinction , 4.2 Other endangered languages , . , 5 Languages , 6 See also , 7 References , 8 External references , . 
History [ edit ] 
Russian was the sole official language of the Russian Empire which existed until 1917. During the Soviet period, the policy toward the languages of the various other ethnic groups fluctuated in practice. The state helped develop alphabets and grammar for various languages across the country that had previously been lacking a written form. Though each of the constituent republics had its own official language, the unifying role and superior status was reserved for Russian.
Russian lost its status in many of the new republics that arose following the 1991 dissolution of the Soviet Union. In Russia, however, the dominating status of the Russian language continued. Today, 97f the public school students of Russia receive their education only or mostly in Russian, even though Russia is made up of approximately 80thnic Russians
Official languages [ edit ] 
Although Russian is the only federally official language of the Russian Federation, there are several other officially recognized languages within Russia's various constituencies a the Constitution of Russia only allows the various Republics of Russia to establish official languages other than Russian. The only exception was made when the city of Sevastopol was annexed by the Russian Federation along with the Republic of Crimea. This is a list of languages that are official only in certain parts of Russia (the language family in which the language belongs is given in parentheses).
Abaza (Northwest Caucasian; in Karachay-Cherkessia) [ 4 ] , Adyghe (Northwest Caucasian; in Adygea), Aghul (Northeast Caucasian; in Dagestan, Altai (Turkic; in the Altai Republic), Avar (Northeast Caucasian; in Dagestan), Azerbaijani (Turkic; in Dagestan), Bashkir (Turkic; in Bashkortostan)(see also Law on the language of the people of the Bashkortostan), Buryat (Mongolic; in Buryatia), Chechen (Northeast Caucasian; in Chechnya), Cherkess (Northeast Caucasian; in Karachay-Cherkessia), Chuvash (Turkic; in Chuvashia), Crimean Tatar (Turkic; in the Republic of Crimea) [ 5 ] , Dargwa (Northeast Caucasian; in Dagestan), Erzya (Uralic; in Mordovia), Ingush (Northeast Caucasian; in Ingushetia), Kabardian (Northwest Caucasian; in Kabardino-Balkaria and Karachay-Cherkessia [ 4 ] ), Kalmyk (Mongolic; in Kalmykia), Karachay-Balkar (Turkic; in Kabardino-Balkaria and Karachay-Cherkessia [ 4 ] ), Khakas (Turkic; in Khakassia), Komi (Uralic; in the Komi Republic), Kumyk (Turkic; in Dagestan), Lak (Northeast Caucasian; in Dagestan), Lezgi (Northeast Caucasian; in Dagestan), Mari (Uralic; in Mari El), Moksha (Uralic; in Mordovia), Nogai (Turkic;in Dagestan and Karachay-Cherkessia) [ 4 ] , Ossetic (Iranian; in North OssetiaaAlania), Rutul (Northeast Caucasian; in Dagestan), Tabasaran (Northeast Caucasian; in Dagestan), Tatar (Turkic; in Tatarstan), Tsakhur (Northeast Caucasian; in Dagestan), TuvDn (Turkic; in Tuva), Udmurt (Uralic; in Udmurtia), Ukrainian (Indo-European; in the Republic of Crimea) [ 5 ] , Yakut (Turkic; in the Sakha Republic), Karelia is the only republic of Russia with Russian as the only official language.
Unofficial languages [ edit ] 
Numerous migrant workers from the near abroad (former USSR republics) and other countries live in Russia.
Armenian, Georgian, French, Azerbaijani, Turkish, Uzbek, Belarusian, Turkmen, Kurdish, Kyrgyz, Czech, Latvian, Estonian, Lithuanian, Finnish, Persian, German, Polish, Romanian, Endangered languages in Russia [ edit ] 
There are many endangered languages in Russia. Some are considered to be near extinction and put on the list of endangered languages in Russia, and some may have gone extinct since data was last reported. On the other hand, some languages may survive even with few speakers.
Some languages have doubtful data, like Serbian whose information in the Ethnologue is based on the 1959 census.
Languages near extinction [ edit ] 
Most numbers are according to Michael Krauss, 1995. Given the time that has passed, languages with extremely few speakers might be extinct today. Since 1997, Kerek and Yugh have become extinct.
Ainu (15), Enets (70), Tofalar (25a30), Medny Aleut (10) (an AleutaRussian creole language), Orok (30a82), Sami, Akkala ( extinct since 2003 ), Sami, Ter (2), Udege (100), Votic (25), Yukaghir, Northern (30a150), Yukaghir, Southern (10a50), . 
Other endangered languages [ edit ] 
Chukchi, Chulym, Erzya, Ingrian, Ket, Ludian, Moksha, Seto, Udmurt, Veps, . 
Languages [ edit ] 
See list of languages of Russia.
See also [ edit ] 
Languages of the Caucasus, Russification, Russian Academy of Sciences, the language regulator in Russia, Japanese language education in Russia, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ Article 68 of the Russian Constitution , ^ "http://www.osvita.org.ua/news/39386.html" (in Ukrainian). , ^ "Russia - Language, Culture, Customs and Etiquette". Kwintessential. , ^ a b c d "Constitution of the Karachay-Cherkess Republic, Chapter 1" (in Russian). KarachayaCherkess Republic official website . Retrieved 2007-01-02 . [ dead link ] , ^ a b "Constitution of the Republic of Crimea (2014)". Article 10 (in Russian). State Council, Republic of Crimea. 11 April 2014. p.4 . Retrieved 14 October 2014 . , External references [ edit ] 
Languages of European Russia (Ethnologue), Languages of Asian Russia (Ethnologue), Minority languages of Russia on the Net project, which aims at presenting the languages of Russia to the Web and at facilitating their usage on the Web (most information is in Russian; it provides scientific references on each individual language as well as links to online language descriptions, educational and scientific institutions related to the language, resources on computer-processing of the language and some sites written in this language), Population by mother tongue and districts in 50 Governorates of the European Russia in 1897, . 
v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages , Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . State languages of Russia , Federal language Russian, . , State languages of federal subjects Abaza, Adyghe, Agul, Altai, Avar, Azerbaijani, Bashkir, Buryat, Chechen, Chuvash, Crimean Tatar, Dargwa, Erzya, Ingush, Kabardian, Kalmyk, Karachay-Balkar, Khakas, Komi, Kumyk, Lak, Lezgian, Mari, Moksha, Nogai, Ossetic, Rutul, Sakha, Tabasaran, Tatar, Tsakhur, Tuvan, Ukrainian, Udmurt, . , Languages with official status Chukchi, Dolgan, Even, Evenki, Finnish, Karelian, Kazakh, Komi-Permyak, Veps, Yukaghir, . , Scripts Cyrillic, Cyrillic Braille, . , v , t , e , . Languages of Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , v , t , e , . Languages of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia , Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , Wikimedia Commons has media related to Languages of Russia ., Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Languages_of_Russia and oldid=632899087" Categories: Languages of Russia, Language policy, . Hidden categories: CS1 Ukrainian-language sources (uk), CS1 Russian-language sources (ru), All articles with dead external links, Articles with dead external links from October 2010, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
Afrikaans, OUOOOUO, aaaaa, DDDDNNNDDN, CatalA, DODDNDD, AeAtina, Deutsch, EspaAol, Esperanto, FranAais, iei, DNDNDNDD-DDDDNDN, Lumbaart, Nederlands, Norsk bokmAl, Polski, DNNNDDD, Simple English, DDNDNDNNDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 8 November 2014 at 01:04.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
