
Politics of Laos - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of Laos 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Laos , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Laos , Ideology Collective leadership, MarxismaLeninism, . , Constitution People's Revolutionary Party Congress (9th), . Central Committee Gen. Secretary: C. Sayasone Politburo (9th), . Secretariat Exec. Secretary: B. Vorachit Commission for Inspection Chairman: B. Chitmany , Legislature National Assembly, . Standing Committee Chairman: Pany Yathotu , Executive President (list) Choummaly Sayasone , Vice President Bounnhang Vorachith , Prime Minister Thongsing Thammavong , Deputy Prime Ministers Asang Laoly Douangchay Phichith Somsavat Lengsavad , . , Mass organizations Front for National Construction, . Standing Committee Chairman: P. Vongsa Youth Union, . Central Committee Gen. Secretary: B. Bouttanavong , Military, Defense, . Lao People's Army Head: C. Sayasone , Ministry of Defense Minister: D. Phichit , . , Judiciary Supreme People's Court, Supreme Public Procuracy, . , Related topics Elections, Administrative divisions (provinces , districts) , . , Human rights, Committee for Independence and
Democracy (CIDL) , Foreign relations, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The politics of Laos takes place in the framework of a single-party socialist republic. The only legal political party is the Lao People's Revolutionary Party (LPRP). The head of state is President Choummaly Sayasone, who also is LPRP general secretary.
The head of government is Prime Minister Thongsing Thammavong. Government policies are determined by the party through the all-powerful nine-member Politburo of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party and the 49-member Central Committee. Important government decisions are vetted by the Council of Ministers.
The FY 2000 central government budget plan called for revenue of $180 million and expenditures of $289 million, including capital expenditures of $202 million.
Contents
1 Political culture 1.1 Insurgency , . , 2 Executive branch , 3 Legislative branch , 4 Political parties and elections , 5 Judicial branch , 6 State leaders , 7 Government , 8 PM Office , 9 Presidential Palace Office , 10 Administrative divisions , 11 References , . 
Political culture [ edit ] 
Laos' first, French-written and monarchical constitution was promulgated on May 11, 1947 and declared it to be an independent state within the French Union. The revised constitution of May 11, 1957, omitted reference to the French Union, though close educational, health and technical ties with the former colonial power persisted. The 1957 document was abrogated on December 3, 1975, when a communist People's Republic was proclaimed.
A new constitution was adopted in 1991 and enshrined a "leading role" for the LPRP. The following year, elections were held for a new 85-seat National Assembly with members elected by secret ballot to five-year terms. This National Assembly, which essentially acts as a rubber stamp for the LPRP, approves all new laws, although the executive branch retains authority to issue binding decrees.
The most recent elections took place in April 2006. The assembly was expanded to 99 members in 1997 and in 2006 elections had 115.
Insurgency [ edit ] 
Further information: Insurgency in Laos 
In the early 2000s, bomb attacks against the government have occurred, coupled with small exchanges of fire, across Laos. [ 1 ] A variety of different groups have claimed responsibility including the Committee for Independence and Democracy in Laos and Lao Citizens Movement for Democracy.
Executive branch [ edit ] 
The presidential palace in Vientiane. 
Main office holders Office Name Party Since President, Choummaly Sayasone, Lao People's Revolutionary Party, 8 June 2006, Prime Minister, Thongsing Thammavong, Lao People's Revolutionary Party, 23 December 2010, The president is elected by the National Assembly for a five-year term. The prime minister and the Council of Ministers are appointed by the president with the approval of the National Assembly for a five-year term.
There are also four deputy prime ministers. As of a cabinet reshuffle on June 8, 2006, they are Maj. Gen. Douangchay Phichit (also defense minister), Thongloun Sisoulith (also foreign minister), Somsavat Lengsavad and Maj. Gen. Asang Laoly.
The 28-member cabinet also includes Onechanh Thammavong as labour minister, Chaleuan Yapaoher as justice minister, Nam Vignaket as industry and commerce minister, Sitaheng Latsaphone as agriculture minister and Sommath Pholsena as transport minister.
Legislative branch [ edit ] 
The National Assembly ( Sapha Heng Xat ) has 132 members, elected for a five-year term.
Political parties and elections [ edit ] 
For other political parties see List of political parties in Laos. An overview on elections and election results is included in Elections in Laos. 
ead Summary of 30 April 2011 National Assembly of Laos election results Seats Lao People's Revolutionary Party ( Phak PaxaxAn Pativat Lao ), 128, Non-partisans, 4, Total , 132 , Judicial branch [ edit ] 
The President of the People's Supreme Court is elected by the National Assembly on the recommendation of the National Assembly Standing Committee. The Vice President of the People's Supreme Court and the judges are appointed by the National Assembly Standing Committee.
State leaders [ edit ] 
President: Lt. Gen. Choummaly Sayasone, Vice President: Bounnhang Vorachith, Prime Minister: Thongsing Thammavong, Deputy Prime Minister and President of State Control Authority: Maj. Gen. Asang Laoly, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs: Dr Thongloun Sisoulith, Deputy Prime Minister and Standing Member of Government: Dr Somsavat Lengsavad, . 
Government [ edit ] 
Thongbane Sengaphone, Minister of National Security, Onchanh Thammavong, Minister of Labour and Social Welfare, Somdy Douangdy, Minister of Planning and Investment, Pr.Dr Bosengkham Vongdara, Minister of Information, Culture and Tourism (update 2013), Prof. Dr. Eksavang VONGVICHIT, Minister of Public Health, Dr Phankham Viphavan, Minister of Education, Dr Nam Viyaket, Minister of Industry and Commerce, Soulivong Daravong, Minister of Energy and Mining, Sommath Pholsena, Minister of Public Works and Transport, Phouphet Khamphounvong, Minister of Finance, Hiem Phommachanh, Minister of Post and Telecommunication, Vilayvan Phomkhe, Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, . 
PM Office [ edit ] 
Sinlavong Khoutphaytoon, Minister to the Prime Ministeras Office, Head of the government Secretariat committee, Bounpheng Mounphosay, Minister to Prime Ministeras Office, Head the Public Administration and Civil Service Authority (PACSA), Soubanh Sritthirath, Minister to the Prime Minister's Office., Cheuang Sombounkhanh, Minister to the Prime Ministeras office, Head of the government Secretariat committee., Onneua Phommachanh, Minister to Prime Ministeras Office, Kham-ouan Boupha, Minister to Prime Ministeras Office, Dr Bounteim Phitsamai, Minister, Head of the Science, Technology and Environment Organisation, Saisengly Tengbriaju, Minister to Prime Ministeras Office, Somphong Mongkhonvilay, Minister to the Prime Ministeras Office, Head of the National Tourism Authority, Bouasi Lorvansay, Minister to Prime Ministeras Office, Khamluad Sitlakon, Minister to the Prime Ministeras Office, President of post and Communication, . 
Presidential Palace Office [ edit ] 
Phongsavath Boupha, Minister to Presidential Palaceas Office, . 
Somphao Faysith, Governor of Lao PDR Central Bank
Dr Chaleun Yiapaoheu, Minister of Justice [1][2][3], President of the National Assembly: Pany Yathotou:, Vice-President of the National Assembly: Dr Xaysomphone Phomvihane [4][5], Somphan Phengkhammy, President of Supreme Court: Khamphanh Sithidampha, Supreme Peopleas Prosecutor: Khamsane Souvong, . 
Politburo of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party: 
Lt. Gen. Choummaly Sayasone, General Secretary of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party, Thongsing Thammavong, Prime Minister (since 23 December 2010), Colonel Bounnhang Vorachith, Vice President of Lao People's Democratic Republic, Standing Member of the Secretariat, Pany Yathotou, Chairwoman of the National Assembly (since 23 December 2010), Dr Thongloun Sisoulith, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Head of the Party's National External Relations Committee, Maj. Gen. Asang Laoly, Deputy Prime Minister, Head of the Party's Central Inspection Committee., Maj. Gen. Douangchay Phichith, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of National Defence, Somsavat Lengsavad, Standing Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Bounpone Bouttanavong, chief of the party Central Committee office., Dr. Bounthong Chitmany, chief of the party organization., Dr. Phankham Viphavanh, education minister., Secretariat of the Party Central Committee: 
Lt. Gen. Choummaly Sayasone, Bounnhang Vorachit (PCC Standing Secretariat), Dr Bounthong Chitmany, Dr Bounpone Bouttanavong, Dr Thongban Seng-aphone, Chansy Phosikham, Soukan Mahalath, Maj. Gen. Sengnuan Xayalath, Cheuang Sombounkhanh, Inspection Committee of the Party Central Committee 
Bounthong Chitmany (President), Thongsy Ouanlasy, Sinay Mienglavanh, Khamsuan Chanthavong, Thongsouk Bounyavong, Singphet Bounsavatthiphan, Bounpone Sangsomsak, Party Central Committee Advisor: Khamtai Siphandon
Administrative divisions [ edit ] 
Main article: Administrative divisions of Laos 
Laos is divided into 17 provinces ( khoueng , singular and plural), 1 municipality* ( nakhon luang vientiane , singular and plural):
Attapu, Bokeo, Borikhamxay, Champassack, Houaphan, Khammouane, Louang Namtha, Luangphabang, Oudomxay, Phongsaly, Saravane, Savannakhet, Saysomboune, Sekong, Vientiane*, Vientiane, Sayaboury, Xieng Khouang.
References [ edit ] 
^ http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/asia-pacific/859457.stm , v , t , e , . Laostopics , History Peopling, Khun Borom, Tai peoples, Lan Xang, Wat Phou, Luang Phrabang, Viang Chan, Champasak, Muang Phuan, French Laos, Japanese invasion, Lao Issara, Kingdom of Laos, Indochina Wars, Ho Chi Minh trail, Pathet Lao, Laotian Civil War, Vietnamese invasion, Neutrality, History until 1945, History since 1945, Insurgency, 2007 coup attempt, . , Geography 
Deforestation, Ecoregions, Mekong, Phou Bia, Rivers, Protected areas, Towns, Wildlife, World Heritage Sites, . , Politics 
Administrative divisions, Constitution, Elections, Foreign relations, General Secretary, Human rights, Insurgencies, Law, Law enforcement, Military, National Assembly, Political parties, President, Prime Minister, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Central bank, Kip (currency) , Energy, Fishing, Stock exchange, Telecommunications, Tourism, Trade unions, Transport, . , Society 
Crime, Demographics, Education, Ethnic groups, Health, Language, Religion, Women, . , Culture Anthem, Cuisine, Dramatic arts, Emblem, Festivals, Flag, Literature, Music, Public holidays, Sports, . , Outline, Index, . Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Politics of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos , Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_Laos and oldid=631318824" Categories: Politics of Laos, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
aaaaa, DNDDDNNDD, FranAais, aaa, LietuviA, Polski, PortuguAs, aaa, Tiang Viat, . Edit links This page was last modified on 27 October 2014 at 13:20.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
