
Law enforcement in Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Law enforcement in Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search A law enforcement officer screens a passenger at the international airport of Vladivostok. 
Law enforcement in the Russian Federation is the responsibility of a variety of different agencies. The Russian police (formerly the militsiya ) are the primary law enforcement agency, the Investigative Committee of Russia (the "Russian FBI") is the main investigative agency, and the Federal Security Service (formerly the KGB) is the main domestic security agency.
Contents
1 Agencies , 2 Prisons , 3 See also , 4 References , . 
Agencies [ edit ] 
Ministry of Internal Affairs: The Police of Russia ( politsiya ). Formerly the militsiya ., The Internal Troops provide a gendarmerie function, supporting the Politsiya and dealing with large-scale riots and internal armed conflicts. They also provide security for highly-important facilities (like nuclear power plants)., . , The Investigative Committee of Russia is an investigative body, sometimes described as the "Russian FBI"., Ministry of Justice: Federal Service of Punishment Execution (FSIN) is responsible for the penal correction and prison system of Russia, . , The Federal Security Service (FSB) is the domestic security service, and the main successor agency of the Soviet-era Cheka, NKVD, and KGB. Responsible for Anti-Terrorism Operations. The Federal Border Guard Service is subordinate to the FSB and responsible for border protection, surveillance and coast guard., . , The Federal Migration Service is responsible for immigration., Federal Customs Service, The Ministry for Civil Defense, Emergencies and Elimination of Consequences of Natural Disasters (EMERCOM) is responsible for the civil defence regulation, protection from fire and has own troops. [ 1 ] , Ministry of Defence Russian Military Police provides the service police function for all Russian armed forces., . , President of Russia FSKN - Russian Federal Narcotics Control of Service ("Narco-Police"). Russian counterpart of the DEA, The Federal Protective Service of Russia is responsible for the protection of Russian state property and high-ranking government personnel, including the President of Russia. Presidential Security Service - concerned with the tasks related to the protection of the President of Russia., . , . , . 
Prisons [ edit ] 
Main article: Prisons in Russia 
Prisons in Russia are administered by the Federal Penitentiary Service (FSIN) and can be categorized under four types of facilities: pre-trial institutions; educative or juvenile labor colonies; corrective labor colonies; and prisons. [ 2 ] 
The corrective colony ( ispravitelnie kolonii or IK ) is the most common, with 760 institutions in 2004 across the many administrative divisions of Russia. [ 2 ] There were also 8 prisons, 62 juvenile facilities, and 192 pre-trial facilities in 2004. [ 3 ] 
See also [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Police of Russia ., Russian Intelligence Community, Crime in Russia, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ Site of EMERGECOM of Russia , ^ a b Roth 2006, p.231. , ^ Roth 2006, p.232. , Roth, Mitchel P. (2006). Prisons And Prison Systems: A Global Encyclopedia . Greenwood Publishing Group. pp.230a232. ISBN0-313-32856-0. , . 
v , t , e , . Law enforcement in Russia , Investigative Committee, Ministry of Internal Affairs Police, Traffic Police Dept., Internal Troops, OMON, . , Federal Protective Service Presidential Security Service, . , Federal Security Service, Federal Drug Control Service, Border Guard Service, Federal Migration Service, Federal Service for Alcohol Market Regulation, Federal Penitentiary Service, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Law enforcement in Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia , Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . Law enforcement in Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Law_enforcement_in_Russia and oldid=628587787" Categories: Law enforcement in Russia, . Hidden categories: Commons category without a link on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
EspaAol, . Edit links This page was last modified on 7 October 2014 at 05:17.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
