
Politics of Lebanon - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of Lebanon 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2010) , This article possibly contains original research . Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (November 2010) , Lebanon , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Lebanon , Constitution Constitution of 1926, . , Executive Acting President Tammam Salam , . , Prime Minister Tammam Salam, . , Cabinet, . , Legislature Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri, . , . , Current members, . , Political parties Lebanese Forces, Movement of the Future, Kataeb Party, Hezbollah, Free Patriotic Movement, Syrian Social Nationalist Party, . , Elections Presidential 2008, Parliamentary 2009, Local 2010, . , Other issues Governorates, Districts, Municipalities, Armed Forces, Human rights, Foreign relations, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , Lebanon is a parliamentary democratic republic within the overall framework of confessionalism, a form of consociationalism in which the highest offices are proportionately reserved for representatives from certain religious communities. The constitution grants the people the right to change their government. However, from the mid-1970s until the parliamentary elections in 1992, civil war precluded the exercise of political rights. According to the constitution, direct elections must be held for the parliament every 4 years. The last parliamentary election was in 2009. [ 1 ] The Parliament, in turn, elects a President every 6 years to a single term. The President is not eligible for re-election. The last presidential election was in 2008. The president and parliament choose the Prime Minister. Political parties may be formed; most are based on sectarian interests. Syria was charged by Arab League with disentangling the combatants and restoring calm from the time of the second Lebanese civil war (which began in 1975) until 2005 when the Lebanese revolted against the Syrian presence and caused the withdrawal of Syrian troops with the support of the International community. Israel occupied parts of Lebanon in 1978 then withdrew from all Lebanese territories in 2000 although they still occupy Shebaa Farms, an area disputed between Syria, Israel and Lebanon. 2008 saw a new twist to Lebanese politics when the Doha Agreement set a new trend where the opposition is allowed a veto power in the Lebanese Council of Ministers and confirmed religious Confessionalism in the distribution of political power.
Contents
1 Political developments since 1943 , 2 Executive branch , 3 Legislative branch , 4 Political parties and elections , 5 Judicial branch , 6 Administrative divisions , 7 Lebanon in the news , 8 International organization participation , 9 Notes , 10 External links , . 
Political developments since 1943 [ edit ] 
See also: Human rights in Lebanon 
Since the emergence of the post-1943 state and after the destruction of the Ottoman Caliphate, national policy has been determined largely by a relatively restricted group of traditional regional and sectarian leaders. The 1943 National Pact, an unwritten agreement that established the political foundations of modern Lebanon, allocated political power on an essentially confessional system based on the 1932 census. Seats in parliament were divided on a 6-to-5 ratio of Christians to Muslims, until 1990 when the ratio changed to half and half. Positions in the government bureaucracy are allocated on a similar basis. The pact also by custom allocated public offices along religious lines, with the top three positions in the ruling "troika" distributed as follows:
The President, a Maronite Christian;, The Speaker of the Parliament, a Shi'a Muslim, and, The Prime Minister, a Sunni Muslim., . 
Efforts to alter or abolish the confessional system of allocating power have been at the centre of Lebanese politics for decades. Those religious groups most favoured by the 1943 formula sought to preserve it, while those who saw themselves at a disadvantage sought either to revise it after updating key demographic data or to abolish it entirely. Nonetheless, many of the provisions of the national pact were codified in the 1989 Ta'if Agreement, perpetuating sectarianism as a key element of Lebanese political life.
Although moderated somewhat under Ta'if, the Constitution gives the President a strong and influential position. The President has the authority to promulgate laws passed by the Parliament, to issue supplementary regulations to ensure the execution of laws, and to negotiate and ratify treaties.
The Parliament is elected by adult suffrage (majority age for election is 21) [ 2 ] based on a system of majority or "winner-take-all" for the various confessional groups. There has been a recent effort to switch to proportional representation which many argue will provide a more accurate assessment of the size of political groups and allow minorities to be heard. Most deputies do not represent political parties as they are known in the West, and rarely form Western-style groups in the assembly. Political blocs are usually based on confessional and local interests or on personal/family allegiance rather than on political affinities.
The parliament traditionally has played a significant role in financial affairs, since it has the responsibility for levying taxes and passing the budget. It also exercises political control over the cabinet through formal questioning of ministers on policy issues and by requesting a confidence debate.
Lebanon's judicial system is based on the Napoleonic Code. Juries are not used in trials. The Lebanese court system has three levelsacourts of first instance, courts of appeal, and the court of cassation. There also is a system of religious courts having jurisdiction over personal status matters within their own communities, e.g., rules on such matters as marriage, divorce, and inheritance.
Lebanese political institutions often play a secondary role to highly confessionalized personality-based politics. Powerful families also still play an independent role in mobilizing votes for both local and parliamentary elections. Nonetheless, a lively panoply of domestic political parties, some even predating independence, exists. The largest are all confessional based. The Free Patriotic Movement, The Kataeb Party, also known as the Phalange Party, the National Bloc, National Liberal Party, Lebanese Forces and the Guardians of the Cedars (now outlawed) each have their own base among Christians. Amal and Hezbollah are the main rivals for the organized Shi'a vote, and the PSP (Progressive Socialist Party) is the leading Druze party. While Shi'a and Druze parties command fierce loyalty to their leaderships, there is more factional infighting among many of the Christian parties. Sunni parties have not been the standard vehicle for launching political candidates, and tend to focus across Lebanon's borders on issues that are important to the community at large. Lebanon's Sunni parties include Hizb ut-Tahrir, Future Movement, Independent Nasserist Organization (INO), the Al-Tawhid, and Ahbash. In addition to domestic parties, there are branches of pan-Arab secular parties (Ba'ath parties, socialist and communist parties) that were active in the 1960s and throughout the period of civil war.
There are differences both between and among Muslim and Christian parties regarding the role of religion in state affairs. There is a very high degree of political activism among religious leaders across the sectarian spectrum. The interplay for position and power among the religious, political, and party leaders and groups produces a political tapestry of extraordinary complexity.
In the past, the system worked to produce a viable democracy. Events over the last decade and long-term demographic trends, however, have upset the delicate Muslim-Christian-Druze balance and resulted in greater segregation across the social spectrum. Whether in political parties, places of residence, schools, media outlets, even workplaces, there is a lack of regular interaction across sectarian lines to facilitate the exchange of views and promote understanding. All factions have called for a reform of the political system.
Some Christians favor political and administrative decentralization of the government, with separate Muslim and Christian sectors operating within the framework of a confederation. Muslims, for the most part, prefer a unified, central government with an enhanced share of power commensurate with their larger share of the population. The reforms of the Ta'if agreement moved in this direction but have not been fully realized.
Palestinian refugees, predominantly Sunni Muslims, whose numbers are estimated at between 160, 000-225, 000, are not active on the domestic political scene.
On September 3, 2004, the Lebanese Parliament voted 96-29 to amend the constitution to extend President Amile Lahoud's six-year term (which was about to expire) by another three years. The move was supported by Syria, which maintained a large military presence in Lebanon.
Following the withdrawal of Syrian troops in April 2005, Lebanon held parliamentary elections in four rounds, from 29 May to 19 June. The elections, the first for 33 years without the presence of Syrian military forces, were won by the Quadripartite alliance, which was part the Rafik Hariri Martyr List, a coalition of several parties and organizations newly opposed to Syrian domination of Lebanese politics.
Executive branch [ edit ] 
Main office holders Office Name Party Since Acting President , Tammam Salam , Independent , 25 May 2014 , Prime Minister, Tammam Salam, Independent, 15 February 2014, The President is elected by the Parliament for a six-year term and cannot be reelected again until six years have passed from the end of the first term. [ 3 ] The Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister are appointed by the President in consultation with the Parliament; the president is required to be a Maronite, the prime minister a Sunni, and the Speaker of the Parliament a Shi'a. (See list of the ministers and their political affiliation for a list of ministers.)
This confessional system is based on 1932 census data which showed the Maronite Christians as having a substantial majority of the population. The Government of Lebanon continues to refuse to undertake a new census.
Legislative branch [ edit ] 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (May 2010) , Lebanese parliament building at Place d'Atoile in Beirut 
Lebanon's national legislature is called the Assembly of Representatives ( Majlis al-Nuwab in Arabic). Since the elections of 1992 (the first since the reforms of the Taif Agreement of 1989 removed the built-in majority previously enjoyed by Christians and distributed the seats equally between Christians and Muslims), the Parliament has had 128 seats. The term was four years, but has recently been extended to five.
Seats in the Parliament are confessionally distributed but elected by universal suffrage. Each religious community has an allotted number of seats in the Parliament. They do not represent only their co-religionists, however; all candidates in a particular constituency, regardless of religious affiliation, must receive a plurality of the total vote, which includes followers of all confessions. The system was designed to minimize inter-sectarian competition and maximize cross-confessional cooperation: candidates are opposed only by co-religionists, but must seek support from outside of their own faith in order to be elected.
The opposition Qornet Shehwan Gathering, a group opposed to the former pro-Syrian regime, has claimed that constituency boundaries have been drawn so as to allow many Shi'a Muslims to be elected from Shi'a-majority constituencies (where the Hezbollah Party is strong), while allocating many Christian members to Muslim-majority constituencies, forcing Christian politicians to represent Muslim interests. (Similar charges, but in reverse, were made against the Chamoun administration in the 1950s).
The following table sets out the confessional allocation of seats in the Parliament before and after the Taif Agreement.
Parliament of Lebanon Seat Allocation Confession Before Taif After Taif Maronite, 30, 34, Greek Orthodox, 11, 14, Greek Catholic, 6, 8, Armenian Orthodox, 4, 5, Armenian Catholic, 1, 1, Protestant, 1, 1, Other Christians, 1, 1, Total Christians 54 64 Sunni, 20, 27, Shi'ite, 19, 27, Alawite, 0, 2, Druze, 6, 8, Total Muslims 45 64 Total 99 128 
Political parties and elections [ edit ] 
For other political parties see List of political parties in Lebanon. An overview on elections and election results is included in Elections in Lebanon. 
Lebanon has numerous political parties, but they play a much less significant role in Lebanese politics than they do in most parliamentary democracies. Many of the "parties" are simply lists of candidates endorsed by a prominent national or local figure. Loose coalitions, usually organized locally, are formed for electoral purposes by negotiation among clan leaders and candidates representing various religious communities; such coalitions usually exist only for the election, and rarely form a cohesive block in the Parliament after the election. No single party has ever won more than 12.5 percent of the seats in the Parliament, and no coalition of parties has won more than 35 percent.
Especially outside of the major cities, elections tend to focus more on local than national issues, and it is not unusual for a party to join an electoral ticket in one constituency while aligned with a rival party - even an ideologically opposite party - in another constituency.
ead Summary of the 7 June 2009 Lebanese Parliament election results Alliances Seats Parties Seats Government
68 , 29, Change and Reform bloc , Free Patriotic Movement ( Tayyar Al-Watani Al-Horr ), 19, Lebanese Democratic Party ( Hizb al-democraty al-lubnany ), 4, Marada Movement, 3, Armenian Revolutionary Federation ( Tashnag ), 2, Solidarity Party ( Hizb Al-Tadamon Al-Lubnany ), 1, 29, March 8 Alliance , Amal Movement ( Harakat Amal ), 13, Loyalty to the Resistance ( Hezbollah ), 12, Syrian Social Nationalist Party ( al-Hizb al-Qawmi al-souri al ijtima'i ), 2, Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party, 2, 10, Pro-Government Independents , Progressive Socialist Party, 7, Glory Movement, 2, Other, 1, Opposition
58 , 58 , March 14 Alliance , Future Movement ( Tayyar Al Mustaqbal ), 26, Lebanese Forces ( al-QuwAt al-LubnAniyya ), 8, Kataeb Party ( Hizb al-Kataeb ), 5, Murr Bloc, 2, Social Democrat Hunchakian Party ( Social Democrat Hunchakian Party ), 2, Islamic Group ( Jamaa al-Islamiya ), 1, Armenian Democratic Liberal Party ( Ramgavar Party ), 1, Democratic Left Movement ( Aarakatu-l-yasAri-d-dimuqrAtA ), 1, National Liberal Party ( Hizbu-l-waTaniyyAni-l-aHrAr ), 1, Independents (including Zahle-Bloc 6 ), 11, a, a, Total 126 
Main article: Lebanese general election, 2009 
Judicial branch [ edit ] 
The judicial branch is of:
Four Courts of Cassation (three courts for civil and commercial cases and one court for criminal cases), The Constitutional Council (called for in the Ta'if Accord) rules on constitutionality of laws, The Supreme Council hears charges against the president and prime minister as needed., A system of military courts that also has jurisdiction over civilians for the crimes of espionage, treason, and other crimes that are considered to be security-related. [ 4 ] , . 
Administrative divisions [ edit ] 
Lebanon is divided in 6 governorates ( muhafazat , singular - muhafazah ); Beirut, Mount Lebanon, North, Beqaa, South, Nabatiye.
Lebanon in the news [ edit ] 
1999 Conflict: Farid Abboud discusses rebuilding after Israeli attacks. [ 5 ] , June 1999 Lebanon Will Fight Corruption by "Authority of Law" [ 6 ] , 2002 Fighting along the disputed Lebanese/Israeli border [ 7 ] , 2002 Lebanese Post-reconstruction Efforts [ 8 ] , 2005 Assassination of former Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri [ 9 ] , . 
International organization participation [ edit ] 
ABEDA, ACCT, AFESD, AL, AMF, ESCWA, FAO, G24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC [ clarification needed ] , ICRM, IDA [ clarification needed ] , IDB, IFAD, IFC [ clarification needed ] , IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO [ clarification needed ] , Inmarsat, ITUC, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OAS [ clarification needed ] (observer), OIC, PCA [ clarification needed ] , UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNRWA, UPU, WCO, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO.
Notes [ edit ] 
^ Pro-Western coalition declares victory in Lebanon - The Globe and Mail , ^ Lebanese Constitution English Official Translation, Lebanese Presidency Website. , ^ Issam Michael Saliba (October 2007). "Lebanon: Presidential Election and the Conflicting Constitutional Interpretations". US Library of Congress . Retrieved May 13, 2014 . , ^ http://www.state.gov/g/drl/rls/hrrpt/2005/61693.htm , ^ Farid Abboud at LAWAC , ^ Ambassador of Lebanon Dr. Farid Abboud at Al-Hewar Center , ^ Interview With Lebanese Ambassador Farid Abboud and Wesley Clark , ^ Ambassador Abboud discusses reconstruction success , ^ WAMU and Farid Abboud discuss Hariri's assassination , External links [ edit ] 
Lebanon official government portal , Lebanon Government at DMOZ, . 
v , t , e , . Lebanontopics , History Phoenicia, Ancient, Arab era, Ottoman Empire Mount Lebanon Emirate, Mount Lebanon Mutasarrifate, . , French mandate, Civil War, Cedar Revolution, . , Geography 
Anti-Lebanon mountains, Beqaa, Cities, Districts, Governorates, Mount Lebanon, Sheeba Farms, South Lebanon, . , Politics 
Constitution, Foreign relations, Human rights LGBT, . , Military, Political parties, President, Prime Minister, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Central Bank, International rankings, Pound (currency) , Telecommunications, Tourism, Transport, . , Culture 
Architecture, Cinema, Cuisine wine, . , Demographics, Education, Flag, Music, Public holidays, Religion, Sports, Television, . , Outline, Index, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Political parties in Lebanon , Ministers (24) 
March 8 Alliance (8) Amal Movement (2), Hezbollah (2), Free Patriotic Movement (2), Marada Movement (1), Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Tashnag) (1), . , March 14 Alliance (8) Future Movement (3), Kataeb Party (3), Independents (2), . , Others (8) Progressive Socialist Party (2), Independents (6), . , National Assembly (128) Future Movement (26), Free Patriotic Movement (19), Amal Movement (13), Hezbollah (12), Lebanese Forces (9), Progressive Socialist Party (7), Kataeb Party (5), Lebanese Democratic Party (4), Marada Movement (3), Ba'ath Party (2), Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Tashnag, 2), Glory Movement (2), Social Democrat Hunchakian Party (2), Syrian Social Nationalist Party (2), Armenian Democratic Liberal Party (Ramgavar, 1), Democratic Left (1), Islamic Group (1), National Liberal Party (1), Solidarity Party (1), Others (14), . , Politics of Lebanon , . , v , t , e , . Politics of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon , Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_Lebanon and oldid=630410965" Categories: Politics of Lebanon, . Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from November 2010, All articles needing additional references, Articles that may contain original research from November 2010, All articles that may contain original research, Articles needing additional references from May 2010, Wikipedia articles needing clarification from November 2008, Articles with DMOZ links, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
aaaaa, DNDDDNNDD, Deutsch, EspaAol, UOOOU, FranAais, iei, LietuviA, Bahasa Melayu, Nederlands, aeaee, Polski, PortuguAs, . Edit links This page was last modified on 20 October 2014 at 18:59.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
