
Law of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Law of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia AA(Redirected from Law of the Russian Federation) Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (October 2009) , Russia , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Russia , Constitution, Law, . Impeachment, Mental Health Law, Russian Criminal Code, Tax Code, . , Presidency President: Vladimir Putin, . Presidential Administration, Security Council, State Council, . , Executive Prime Minister: Dmitry Medvedev, . Government, Cabinet (14th) , . , Legislature Federal Assembly, Federation Council, State Duma, . , . , Judiciary Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, Prosecutor General, Supreme Court of Arbitration, Legal system, . , Elections Presidential elections, Legislative elections, Central Election Commission, Electoral geography, Political parties, . , Foreign relations United Nations, ArabaIsraeli conflict, . , Related topics Administrative divisions, Federal subjects, Regional parliaments, Armed forces, Martial law, . , Civic Chamber, Accounts Chamber, E-Government, Opposition, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The primary and fundamental statement of laws in the Russian Federation is the Constitution of the Russian Federation.
Contents
1 Hierarchy 1.1 Domestic sources , 1.2 Constitutional laws , 1.3 Statutes , 1.4 Sub-laws 1.4.1 Presidential decrees and directives , 1.4.2 Agency regulations , . , 1.5 Judicial decisions, judicial practice and explanations of supreme courts , 1.6 Judicial explanations of law , 1.7 Judicial review of laws for constitutionality by the constitutional court , 1.8 Other sources 1.8.1 USSR legislation , 1.8.2 Analogy , 1.8.3 Legal consciousness, natural law, good faith and general principles , 1.8.4 Custom , 1.8.5 Academic commentary , 1.8.6 International law , . , . , 2 Type of legal system , 3 Legal education , 4 See also , 5 References , 6 External links , . 
Hierarchy [ edit ] 
Domestic sources [ edit ] 
Since its adoption in a 1993 referendum the Russian Constitution is considered to be the supreme law of the land. Article 15 of the Constitution reads that it ashall have supreme legal force and have direct effect, and shall be applicable throughout the entire territory of the Russian Federation.a Courts are guided by the Constitution and it trumps federal and local laws.
Constitutional laws [ edit ] 
Constitutional laws cannot become part of the constitution or amend parts of it absent a special legal act on constitutional amendment. They are typically enacted in important areas of constitutional law, such as Article 56 which allows for the passage of constitutional laws necessitated by a state of emergency. However the Constitutional Court was able to foreclose the possibility that constitutional laws could be used to circumvent the legislative process in the Case Concerning Interpretation of Art. 136 of the Constitution , VKS, 1995, No. 6, p.10. Nevertheless, constitutional laws enjoy special status within hierarchy of laws, since federal constitutional laws will displace federal laws.
Statutes [ edit ] 
Statutes are the predominant legal source of Russian law, and may only be enacted through the legislative process. Codes are the basis for law on a matter, and they are usually supplemented with legislation to develop certain provisions. There are gaps in some of the codes, but even still the judges will find a basis for deciding the case in a given code. Codes are interpreted flexibly, and interpretation may be based on enumeration of ageneral principlesa of the codes. General principles are usually articulated at the beginning of the codes in the first chapter to outline the reason for the legislation. Reasoning by analogy is also allowed.
The Russian Civil Code is the aconstitutiona of the market economy, and is special in the hierarchy of codes, since it will supplant contradictory text in other codes. New codes and laws supersede old ones, unless a statute expressly preserves the old law.
Sub-laws [ edit ] 
Presidential decrees and directives [ edit ] 
The President has power to issue normative and non-normative decrees, provided they do not contravene the constitution and federal laws. "On the basis and for the sake of implementation of the Constitution of the Russian Federation, federal laws, normative decrees of the President of the Russian Federation" Government may also issue directives having anormativea character.
Agency regulations [ edit ] 
Agencies may enact regulations through their general competency, but these are limited to the extent of the constitution and relevant codes. If these limits are not strictly defined, then the president may use agencies to get around the legislative process. Consequently, agencies may have their powers limited by statutes. The Civil Code purposely authorizes supplementary rules by astatutea rather than the broader term alegislationa which could encompass other secondary law.
Judicial decisions, judicial practice and explanations of supreme courts [ edit ] 
Russia is a civil law country; and, strictly speaking, decisions rendered by courts are not binding on other courts. However, the lower courts generally follow the principles established by the supreme courts. Moreover, according to Art.304 of the Code of Procedure in Commercial Courts, the Supreme Commercial Court can set aside a decision of a lower court on the grounds that this decision contravenes uniformity in interpretation of law as established by case law. In practice, but not in theory, precedents of the higher courts are becoming an important Russian law. [ 1 ] 
Judicial explanations of law [ edit ] 
The Russian Supreme Court and Supreme Commercial Court have no authority to issue general aexplanationsa of the substantive law and procedural issues, absent a relevant "case or controversy" in front of them. Legal scholars also take part in these discussions, and the opinions of the judges and commentators are published and used as persuasive authority. This process is somewhat analogous to the discussion that scholars take in American Law Reports or in law reviews. [ according to whom? ] The judges and scholars may codify what is practice, or more importantly address new issues of law to the lower courts and instruct them how to interpret these issues. The texts of the explanations of the law are published, and cited by many courts. In contrast, only selected judicial opinions are published. It is not clear which explanations are binding to lower courts, as there is a tension between the Constitution and federal law versus guiding explanatory principles. Still, lower courts that ignore relevant explanations will probably get reversed.
Judicial review of laws for constitutionality by the constitutional court [ edit ] 
Judicial Review allows courts to declare unconstitutional laws void. Constitutional Courts are therefore negative legislators. The interpretations of the constitution in the decisions of the Constitutional Court are also authoritative and binding on the political branches. The ordinary or lower courts may also apply judicial review. Courts of general jurisdiction may decline to apply (1) any law that violates the Constitution and (2) any normative regulations, in particular subordinate regulations that contravene statutes. The Supreme Court of the Russian Federation has jurisdiction to determine the constitutionality of regulations issued by government agencies. The Supreme Court has held that lower courts must evaluate the contents of applicable laws or other normative acts for their conformity to the constitution, and to apply the constitution where they conflict.
Other sources [ edit ] 
USSR legislation [ edit ] 
USSR legislation fills gaps as the new system is being put in place, and is purely transitional until the Russian parliament can add new laws. It cannot contradict legislative acts of RF.
Analogy [ edit ] 
Judges often reason by analogy, using the general principles of the law the codes to interpret provisions broadly. [ clarification needed ] 
Legal consciousness, natural law, good faith and general principles [ edit ] 
Judges donat rely on natural law, but rather legal positivism combined with general principles of law. They may rely on athe requirements of good faith, reasonableness, and justice since Civil Code and other codes tell specific principles within the code. Other principles are equity and fairness, general principles of law, etc.
Custom [ edit ] 
The Russian Civil Code explicitly mentions custom as a separate source of law. Traditions may establish rules of decision where there is no dispositive language in statute or other written law.
Academic commentary [ edit ] 
Individual scholars may be influential by drafting legislation or debating proposed legislation. Unlike in some civil-law systems, academic treatises or learned commentary is not considered a separate source of law or cited by judges, but judges and attorney rely on it for their arguments.
International law [ edit ] 
All international law and the international treaties of the Russian Federation are part of Russian domestic legal system. Domestic law gives way to international law according to Article 15 of the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has the greatest expertise in applying international law.
Type of legal system [ edit ] 
During the Soviet period, Russian law was considered to be socialist law. Since the fall of the Soviet Union that is no longer the case, and most scholars have classified the Russian legal system as a civil law system. However, there are problems with this new classification (similar to the ones that plagued Russia's classification as a socialist law country). For more, see William Partlett, Reclassifying Russian Law: Mechanisms, Outcomes, and Solutions for an Overly Politicized Field (reference below).
Legal education [ edit ] 
See also: Education in Russia and List of law schools in Russia 
Legal education has traditionally begun with the specialist degree in law ( NDDNDDDDNN DD DNDDDDDDDDDN ). [ 2 ] 
See also [ edit ] 
Institute of State and Law, Russian legal history, List of Russian Legal Historians, Constitution of Russia, Civil Code of Russia, Copyright in Russia, Criminal Code of Russia, Inheritance law of Russia, Law of the Soviet Union, Judicial system of the Russian Empire, Rossiskaya Gazeta, Russkaya Pravda, Sudebnik, Consultant Plus database of Russian legislation, Scholars in Russian law, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ Sources of Russian law. , ^ Harvard 2011, p.3. , The Russian Legal Profession , Harvard Law School Program on the Legal Profession, 2011 , retrieved 25 January 2013 , . Peter Maggs, William Burnham and Gennady Danilenko, Law and Legal System of the Russian Federation , Juris Publishing, Inc., 2012 , . 
External links [ edit ] 
Online Encyclopaedia of Contemporary Russian Law, Legal Research Guide: Russia, William Partlett, Reclassifying Russian Law: Mechanisms, Outcomes, and Solutions for an Overly Politicized Field, Columbia Journal of East European Law, Vol. 2, p.1 (2008). Available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract=1197762., . 
v , t , e , . Law in Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , v , t , e , . Law of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia , Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law , Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Law_of_Russia and oldid=618927052" Categories: Russian law, . Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from October 2009, All articles needing additional references, All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases, Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from October 2012, Wikipedia articles needing clarification from October 2012, Articles containing Russian-language text, Use mdy dates from May 2011, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
Deutsch, FranAais, LietuviA, DNNNDDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 29 July 2014 at 05:52.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
