
Legislature - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Legislature 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia AA(Redirected from Legislative power) Jump to: navigation, search 
A legislature is a decision-making organization, usually associated with national government, that has the power to enact, amend, and repeal laws. [ 1 ] Legislatures observe and steer governing actions and usually have exclusive authority to amend the budget or budgets involved in the process. The most common names for national legislatures are "parliament" and "congress", although these terms have more specific meanings.
Contents
1 Terminology , 2 Institutional framework , 3 Chambers , 4 See also , 5 Notes and references , . 
Terminology [ edit ] 
As well as "parliament" and "congress", names for legislatures include "assembly", "diet", " majlis " and "council". "Parliament" generally refers to a legislature within a Westminster-style system.
Because members of legislatures usually sit together in a specific room to deliberate, seats in that room may be assigned exclusively to members of the legislature. In parliamentary language, the term "seat" is sometimes used to mean that someone is a member of a legislature. For example, to say that a legislature has 100 "seats" means that there are 100 members of the legislature; and saying that someone is "contesting a seat" means they are trying to be elected as a member of the legislature. By extension, the term "seat" is often used in less formal contexts to refer to an electoral district itself, as, for example, in the phrases "safe seat" and "marginal seat".
In parliamentary systems of government, the executive is responsible to the legislature which may remove it with a vote of no confidence. According to the separation of powers doctrine, the legislature in a presidential system is considered an independent and coequal branch of government along with both the judiciary and the executive. [ 2 ] 
Institutional framework [ edit ] 
A legislature creates a complex interaction between individual members, political parties, committees, rules of parliamentary procedure, and informal norms.
Chambers [ edit ] 
A legislature is composed of one or more deliberative assemblies that separately debate and vote upon bills. These assemblies are normally known as chambers or houses . A legislature with only one house is a unicameral legislature, while a bicameral legislature possesses two separate chambers, usually described as an "upper house" and a "lower house". These usually differ in the duties and powers they exercisea the upper house being more revisionary or advisory in parliamentary systemsa and the methods used for the selection of members. Tricameral legislatures are rare; the Massachusetts Governor's Council still exists, but the most recent national example existed in the waning years of caucasian-minority rule in South Africa.
In presidential systems, the powers of the two houses are often similar or equal, while in federations, the upper house typically represents the federation's component states. This is a case with the supranational legislature of the European Union. The upper house may either contain the delegates of state governmentsa as in the European Union and in Germany and, before 1913, in the United Statesa or be elected according to a formula that grants equal representation to states with smaller populations, as is the case in Australia and the United States since 1913. In the United States the legislative branch is split into the Senate and the House of Representatives.
See also [ edit ] 
, Wikiquote has quotations related to: Legislature , Legislative Council, Parliamentary system, List of legislatures by country, . 
Notes and references [ edit ] 
^ "Debate #3 Glossary". Hansard Society. November 2003 . Retrieved 2008-10-16 . , ^ "Governing Systems and Executive-Legislative Relations (Presidential, Parliamentary and Hybrid Systems)". United Nations Development Programme . Retrieved 2008-10-16 . , v , t , e , . Law , Core subjects Administrative law, Constitutional law, Contract, Criminal law, Deed, Equity, Evidence, International law, Law of obligations, Procedure Civil, Criminal, . , Property law, Public law, Restitution, Statutory law, Tort, . , Other subjects Agricultural law, Aviation law, Banking law, Bankruptcy, Commercial law, Competition law, Conflict of laws, Conservation law, Construction law, Consumer protection, Corporate law, Cyberlaw, Election law, Energy law, Entertainment law, Environmental law, Family law, Financial regulation, Health law, Immigration law, Intellectual property, International criminal law, International human rights, International slavery laws, Labour law, Law of war, Maritime law, Media law, Military law, Physical law, Probate Estate, Will and testament, . , Product liability, Public international law, Scientific law, Space law, Sports law, Tax law, Trust law, . , Sources of law Charter, Constitution, Custom, Divine right, Human rights, Natural and legal rights, Precedent Case law, . , . , Law making Codification, Decree Edict, Executive order, Proclamation, . , Legislation Delegated legislation, Regulation, Rulemaking, . , Promulgation, Repeal, Statutory law Statute, Act of Parliament, Act of Congress, . , Treaty, . , Legal systems Civil law, Common law, Chinese law, Legal pluralism, Natural law, Religious law Canon law, Hindu law, Jewish law, Sharia, . , Roman law, Socialist law, Statutory law, Xeer, Yassa, . , Legal theory Critical legal studies, Comparative law, Feminist, Law and economics, Legal formalism, History, International legal theory, Principle of legality, Rule of law, Sociology, . , Jurisprudence Adjudication, Administration of justice, Criminal justice, Dispute resolution, Fiqh, Lawsuit/Litigation, Legal opinion, Legal remedy, Judgment, Judicial review, Jurisdiction, Jury, Justice, Practice of law Attorney, Barrister, Counsel, Lawyer, Legal representation, Prosecutor, Solicitor, . , Question of fact, Question of law, Trial, Trial advocacy, Trier of fact, Verdict, . , Legal institutions Bureaucracy, The bar, Civil society, Court, Election commission, Executive, Judiciary, Law enforcement, Legal education Law school, . , Legislature , Military, Police, Tribunal, . , Category , Index , Outline , Portal , . , v , t , e , . Separation of powers , Typical branches Executive, Legislature , Judiciary, . , Atypical branches Civil service commission, . , By country Australia, United Kingdom, United States, Singapore, . , See also Fusion of powers, Separation of duties, Judicial independence, Judicial review, Government performance auditing, Dual mandate, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Legislature and oldid=632615339" Categories: Legislatures, Separation of powers, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, Asturianu, BAn-lAm-gA, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, DNDDDNNDD, Bosanski, CatalA, AeAtina, Dansk, Deutsch, Eesti, EspaAol, Esperanto, Euskara, UOOOU, FranAais, Frysk, Gaelg, Galego, iei, OOOOOOO, aaaaaa, Hrvatski, Ido, Bahasa Indonesia, Aslenska, Italiano, Basa Jawa, aaaaa, ODDDOND, DNNDNDND, aaa, Latina, LatvieAu, LAtzebuergesch, LietuviA, DDDDDDDNDD, aaaaaa, UOOU, Bahasa Melayu, Nederlands, aaaaaa, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, Occitan, aaaaaa, UUOU, PlattdAAtsch, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, Runa Simi, DNNNDDD, Scots, Simple English, SlovenAina, SlovenAAina, Soomaaliga, DNDNDD / srpski, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Suomi, Svenska, Tagalog, aaaaa, aaa, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, OOOU, Tiang Viat, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 5 November 2014 at 22:27.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
