
Leonid Brezhnev - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Leonid Brezhnev 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search "Brezhnev" redirects here. For other uses, see Brezhnev (disambiguation). 
Leonid Brezhnev DDDDDD DNDDDDD (Russian) DDDDiD DNDDDND (Ukrainian) , Brezhnev in East Berlin in 1967, General Secretary of the Central Committee
of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union
(The office was named First Secretary until 1966) In office 
14 October 1964a 10 November 1982, Preceded by Nikita Khrushchev, Succeeded by Yuri Andropov, Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme
Soviet of the Soviet Union In office 
16 June 1977a 10 November 1982, Preceded by Nikolai Podgorny, Succeeded by Yuri Andropov, In office 
7 May 1960a 15 July 1964, Preceded by Kliment Voroshilov, Succeeded by Anastas Mikoyan, Chairman of the Bureau of the Central
Committee of the Russian SFSR In office 
16 November 1964a 8 April 1966, Deputy Andrei Kirilenko, Preceded by Nikita Khrushchev, Succeeded by Office abolished, Full member of the 20th, 22nd, 23rd, 24th, 25th, 26th Politburo In office 
27 February 1956a 10 November 1982, Member of the 20tha21st, 22nd, 23rd, 24th, 25th, 26th Secretariat In office 
29 June 1957a 10 November 1982, Candidate member of the 19th, 20th Politburo In office 
27 February 1956a 29 June 1957, In office 
16 October 1952a 5 March 1953, Personal details Born Leonid Ilyich Brezhnev 
( 1906-12-19 ) 19 December 1906
Kamenskoye, Yekaterinoslav Governorate, Russian Empire, Died 10 November 1982 ( 1982-11-10 ) (aged75)
Zarechye, near Moscow, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Citizenship Soviet, Nationality Ukrainian and Russian, Political party Communist Party of the Soviet Union, Spouse(s) Viktoria Brezhneva, Children Galina Brezhneva
Yuri Brezhnev, Residence Zarechye, near Moscow, Profession Metallurgical engineer, civil servant, Signature , Military service Allegiance Soviet Union, Service/branch Red Army
Soviet Army, Years of service 1941a1982, Rank Marshal of the Soviet Union
(1976a1982), Commands Soviet Armed Forces, Battles/wars World War II
Vietnam War
Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia
War of Attrition
Sino-Soviet border conflict
Soviet war in Afghanistan, Awards 
(Full list of awards and decorations), This article is part of the series The life of Leonid Brezhnev 
Brezhnev Era
Death and funeral
Legacy
, Leonid Ilyich Brezhnev (Russian: DDDDDID DDNDIN DNDIDDDD ; IPA: [lEEEEnEit ElEEjitIE EbrEeEnEEf] ( listen ) ; Ukrainian: DDDDNID DDDNIN DNDIDDND , 19 December 1906 (O.S. 6 December) a 10 November 1982) was the General Secretary of the Central Committee (CC) of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU), presiding over the country from 1964 until his death in 1982. His eighteen-year term as General Secretary was second only to that of Joseph Stalin in duration. During Brezhnev's rule, the global influence of the Soviet Union grew dramatically, in part because of the expansion of the Soviet military during this time. His tenure as leader was marked by the beginning of an era of economic and social stagnation in the Soviet Union.
Brezhnev was born in Kamenskoe into a Russian worker's family. After graduating from the Dniprodzerzhynsk Metallurgical Technicum, he became a metallurgical engineer in the iron and steel industry, in Ukraine. He joined Komsomol in 1923, and in 1929 became an active member of the CPSU. He was drafted into immediate military service during World War II and left the army in 1946 with the rank of Major General. In 1952 Brezhnev became a member of the Central Committee, and in 1964, Brezhnev succeeded Nikita Khrushchev as First Secretary, while Alexei Kosygin succeeded Khrushchev in his post as Soviet premier.
As a leader, Brezhnev took care to consult his colleagues before acting, but his attempt to govern without meaningful economic reforms led to a national decline by the mid-1970s, a period referred to as the Era of Stagnation. A significant increase in military expenditure, which by the time of Brezhnev's death stood at approximately 12.5f the country's GNP, and an aging and ineffective leadership set the stage for a dwindling GNP compared to Western nations. While at the helm of the USSR, Brezhnev pushed for dAtente between the Eastern and Western countries. At the same time he presided over the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia to stop the Prague Spring, and his last major decision in power was to send the Soviet military to Afghanistan in an attempt to save the fragile regime, which was fighting a war against the mujahideen.
After suffering from various illnesses for several years, Brezhnev died on 10 November 1982 and was quickly succeeded in his post as General Secretary by Yuri Andropov. Brezhnev had fostered a cult of personality, although not nearly to the same degree as Stalin. Mikhail Gorbachev, who would lead the USSR from 1985 to 1991, denounced his legacy and drove the process of liberalisation of the Soviet Union. In spite of this, opinion polls in Russia show Brezhnev to be the most popular Russian leader of the 20th century.
Contents
1 Early life and career 1.1 Origins and education , 1.2 Political development , 1.3 World War II , 1.4 Immediate post war , 1.5 Removal of Khrushchev , . , 2 Leader (1964a1982) 2.1 Consolidation of power , 2.2 Domestic policies 2.2.1 Repression , 2.2.2 Economics 2.2.2.1 Economic growth until 1973 , 2.2.2.2 Agricultural policy , 2.2.2.3 Economic stagnation , . , 2.2.3 Society , . , 2.3 Foreign and defence policies 2.3.1 SovietaU.S. relations 2.3.1.1 The Vietnam War , . , 2.3.2 SinoaSoviet relations , 2.3.3 Intervention in Afghanistan , 2.3.4 Eastern Europe , . , 2.4 Cult of personality , 2.5 Health problems , 2.6 Last years and death , . , 3 Legacy , 4 Personality traits and family , 5 Notes , 6 References , 7 Bibliography , 8 External links , . 
Early life and career [ edit ] 
Origins and education [ edit ] 
Brezhnev was born on 19 December 1906 in Kamenskoye (now Dniprodzerzhynsk in Ukraine), to metalworker Ilya Yakovlevich Brezhnev and his wife, Natalia Denisovna Mazalova. His parents used to live in Brezhnevo (Kursky District, Kursk Oblast, Russia) before moving to Kamenskoe. Brezhnev's ethnicity was specified as Ukrainian in some documents, [ 1 ] [ 2 ] including his passport, [ 3 ] and Russian in others. [ 4 ] [ 5 ] Like many youths in the years after the Russian Revolution of 1917, he received a technical education, at first in land management where he started as a land surveyor and then in metallurgy. He graduated from the Dniprodzerzhynsk Metallurgical Technicum in 1935 [ 6 ] and became a metallurgical engineer in the iron and steel industries of eastern Ukraine.
Political development [ edit ] 
Brezhnev joined the Communist Party youth organisation, the Komsomol, in 1923, and the Party itself in 1929. [ 5 ] In 1935 and 1936, Brezhnev served his compulsory military service, and after taking courses at a tank school, he served as a political commissar in a tank factory. Later in 1936, he became director of the Dniprodzerzhynsk Metallurgical Technicum (technical college). In 1936, he was transferred to the regional center of Dnipropetrovsk and, in 1939, he became Party Secretary in Dnipropetrovsk, [ 6 ] in charge of the city's important defence industries. As a survivor of Stalin's Great Purge of 1937a39, he was able to advance quickly as the purges created numerous openings in the senior and middle ranks of the Party and state governments. [ 5 ] 
World War II [ edit ] 
Brezhnev with Nikita Khrushchev during the war 
When Nazi Germany invaded the Soviet Union on 22 June 1941, Brezhnev was, like most middle-ranking Party officials, immediately drafted. He worked to evacuate Dnipropetrovsk's industries to the east of the Soviet Union before the city fell to the Germans on 26 August, and then was assigned as a political commissar. In October, Brezhnev was made deputy of political administration for the Southern Front, with the rank of Brigade-Commissar (Colonel). [ 7 ] 
When Ukraine was occupied by the Germans in 1942, Brezhnev was sent to the Caucasus as deputy head of political administration of the Transcaucasian Front. In April 1943, he became head of the Political Department of the 18th Army. Later that year, the 18th Army became part of the 1st Ukrainian Front, as the Red Army regained the initiative and advanced westward through Ukraine. [ 8 ] The Front's senior political commissar was Nikita Khrushchev, who had supported Brezhnev's career since the pre-war years. Brezhnev had met Khrushchev in 1931, shortly after joining the Party, and before long, as he continued his rise through the ranks, he became Khrushchev's protAgA. [ 9 ] At the end of the war in Europe, Brezhnev was chief political commissar of the 4th Ukrainian Front, which entered Prague in May 1945, after the German surrender. [ 7 ] 
Immediate post war [ edit ] 
Brezhnev temporarily left the Soviet Army with the rank of Major General in August 1946. He had spent the entire war as a political commissar rather than a military commander. After working on reconstruction projects in Ukraine, he again became General Secretary in Dnipropetrovsk. In 1950, he became a deputy of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union, the Soviet Union's highest legislative body. Later that year he was appointed Party First Secretary in Moldavia. [ 10 ] In 1952, he had a meeting with Stalin after which Stalin promoted Brezhnev to the Communist Party's Central Committee as a candidate member of the Presidium (formerly the Politburo). [ 11 ] 
Stalin died in March 1953, and in the reorganisation that followed, the Presidium was abolished and a smaller Politburo reconstituted. Although Brezhnev was not made a Politburo member, he was appointed head of the Political Directorate of the Army and the Navy with the rank of Lieutenant-General, a very senior position. Brezhnev's patron Khrushchev succeeded Stalin as General Secretary, while Khrushchev's opponent Malenkov succeeded Stalin as Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet. Brezhnev sided with Khrushchev against Malenkov, but only for several years. On 7 May 1955, Brezhnev was made General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Kazakh SSR. On the surface, his brief was simple: to make the new lands agriculturally productive. In reality, Brezhnev became involved in the development of the Soviet missile and nuclear arms programs, including the Baykonur Cosmodrome. The initially successful Virgin Lands Campaign soon became unproductive and failed to solve the growing Soviet food crisis. Brezhnev was recalled to Moscow in 1956. The harvest in the years following the Virgin Lands Campaign was disappointing, which would have hurt his political career had he remained in Kazakhstan. [ 10 ] 
In February 1956, Brezhnev returned to Moscow, was made candidate member of the Politburo assigned in control of the defense industry, the space program including the Baykonur Cosmodrome, heavy industry, and capital construction. [ 12 ] He was now a senior member of Khrushchev's entourage, and in June 1957, he backed Khrushchev in his struggle with the Malenkov's Stalinist old guard in the Party leadership, the so-called "Anti-Party Group". Following the defeat of the Stalinists, Brezhnev became a full member of the Politburo. Brezhnev became Second Secretary of the Central Committee in 1959, [ 10 ] and in May 1960 was promoted to the post of Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet, [ 13 ] making him the nominal head of state, although the real power resided with Khrushchev as First Secretary of the Soviet Communist Party. In 1962, Brezhnev became an honorary citizen of Belgrade. [ 14 ] 
Removal of Khrushchev [ edit ] 
Khrushchev in 1963, one year before his ousting. 
Until about 1962, Khrushchev's position as Party leader was secure; but as the leader aged, he grew more erratic and his performance undermined the confidence of his fellow leaders. The Soviet Union's mounting economic problems also increased the pressure on Khrushchev's leadership. Outwardly, Brezhnev remained loyal to Khrushchev, but he became involved in a 1963 plot to remove the leader from power, possibly playing a leading role. In 1963 also, Brezhnev succeeded Frol Kozlov, another Khrushchev protAgA, as Secretary of the Central Committee, positioning him as Khrushchev's likely successor. [ 15 ] Khrushchev made him Second Secretary, literally deputy party leader, in 1964. [ 16 ] 
After returning from Scandinavia and Czechoslovakia in October 1964, Khrushchev, unaware of the plot, went on holiday in Pitsunda resort on the Black Sea. Upon his return, his Presidium officers congratulated him for his work in office. Anastas Mikoyan visited Khrushchev, hinting that he should not be too complacent about his present situation. Vladimir Semichastny, head of the KGB, [ 17 ] was a crucial part of the conspiracy, as it was his duty to inform Khrushchev if anyone was plotting against his leadership. Nikolay Ignatov, who had been sacked by Khrushchev, discreetly requested the opinion of several Central Committee members. After some false starts, fellow conspirator Mikhail Suslov phoned Khrushchev on 12 October and requested that he return to Moscow to discuss the state of Soviet agriculture. Finally Khrushchev understood what was happening, and said to Mikoyan, "If it's me who is the question, I will not make a fight of it." [ 18 ] While a minority headed by Mikoyan wanted to remove Khrushchev from the office of First Secretary but retain him as the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, the majority, headed by Brezhnev, wanted to remove him from active politics altogether. [ 18 ] 
Brezhnev and Nikolai Podgorny appealed to the Central Committee, blaming Khrushchev for economic failures, and accusing him of voluntarism and immodest behavior. Influenced by the Brezhnev allies, Politburo members voted to remove Khrushchev from office. [ 19 ] In addition, some members of the Central Committee wanted him to undergo punishment of some kind. But Brezhnev, who had already been assured the office of the General Secretary, saw little reason to punish his old mentor further. [ 20 ] Brezhnev was appointed First Secretary, but at the time was believed to be a transition leader of sorts, who would only "keep the shop" until another leader was appointed. [ 21 ] Alexei Kosygin was appointed head of government, and Mikoyan was retained as head of state. [ 22 ] Brezhnev and his companions supported the general party line taken after Joseph Stalin's death, but felt that Khrushchev's reforms had removed much of the Soviet Union's stability. One reason for Khrushchev's ousting was that he continuously overruled other party members, and was, according to the plotters, "in contempt of the party's collective ideals". Pravda , a newspaper in the Soviet Union, wrote of new enduring themes such as collective leadership, scientific planning, consultation with experts, organisational regularity and the ending of schemes. When Khrushchev left the public spotlight, there was no popular commotion, as most Soviet citizens, including the intelligentsia, anticipated a period of stabilisation, steady development of Soviet society and continuing economic growth in the years ahead. [ 20 ] 
Leader (1964a1982) [ edit ] 
Further information: History of the Soviet Union (1964a1982) 
Consolidation of power [ edit ] 
Further information: Collective leadership in the Soviet Union Brezhnev after speaking at the Komsomol Central Committee plenary session (1968) 
As Brezhnev replaces Khrushchev, he as the new General-Secretary of the ruling Communist Party holds the ultimate political authority as the leader of the Soviet Union but he is the core of the collective leadership that comprises Podgorny, the head of the Supreme Soviet legislature as nominal head of state and Kosygin as the Premier, with executive responsibilities. But, Brezhnev soon would maximize his grip on power and would be the dominating authority in the collective leadership. Early policy reforms were seen as predictable. In 1964, a plenum of the Central Committee forbade any single individual to hold the two most powerful posts of the country (the office of the General Secretary and the Premier). [ 20 ] Former Chairman of the State Committee for State Security (KGB) Alexander Shelepin disliked the new collective leadership and its reforms. He made a bid for the supreme leadership in 1965 by calling for restoration of "obedience and order". Shelepin failed to gather support in the Presidium and Brezhnev's position was fairly secure; he was able to remove Shelepin from office in 1967. [ 23 ] 
Khrushchev was removed mainly because of his disregard of many high-ranking organisations within the CPSU and the Soviet government. Throughout the Brezhnev era, the Soviet Union was controlled by a collective leadership (officially coined "Collectivity of leadership") at least through the late 1960s and 1970s. The consensus within the party was that the collective leadership prevailed over the supreme leadership of one individual. T.H. Rigby argued that by the end of the 1960s, a stable oligarchic system had emerged in the Soviet Union, with most power vested around Brezhnev, Kosygin and Podgorny. While the assessment was true at the time, it coincided with Brezhnev's strengthening of power by means of an apparent clash with Central Committee Secretariat Mikhail Suslov. [ 24 ] American Henry A. Kissinger, in the 1960s, mistakenly believed Kosygin to be the dominant leader of Soviet foreign policy in the Politburo. During this period, Brezhnev was gathering enough support to strengthen his position within Soviet politics. In the meantime, Kosygin was in charge of economic administration in his role as Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Kosygin's position was weakened when he proposed an economic reform in 1965, which was widely referred to as the "Kosygin reform" within the Communist Party. The reform led to a backlash, and party conservatives continued to oppose Kosygin after witnessing the results of reforms leading up to the Prague Spring. His opponents then flocked to Brezhnev, and they helped him in his task of strengthening his position within the Soviet system. [ 25 ] 
Brezhnev was adept at the politics within the Soviet power structure. He was a team player and never acted rashly or hastily; unlike Khrushchev, he did not make decisions without substantial consultation with his colleagues, and was always willing to hear their opinions. [ 26 ] During the early 1970s, Brezhnev consolidated his domestic position. In 1977, he forced the retirement of Podgorny and became once again Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union, making this position equivalent to that of an executive president. While Kosygin remained Premier until shortly before his death in 1980 (replaced by Nikolai Tikhonov as Premier), Brezhnev was the dominant driving force of the Soviet Union from the mid-1970s [ 27 ] to his death in 1982. [ 25 ] 
Domestic policies [ edit ] 
Repression [ edit ] 
Brezhnev's stabilisation policy included ending the liberalising reforms of Khrushchev, and clamping down on cultural freedom. [ 28 ] During the Khrushchev years, Brezhnev had supported the leader's denunciations of Stalin's arbitrary rule, the rehabilitation of many of the victims of Stalin's purges, and the cautious liberalisation of Soviet intellectual and cultural policy. But as soon as he became leader, Brezhnev began to reverse this process, and developed an increasingly conservative and regressive attitude. [ 29 ] [ 30 ] 
The trial of the writers Yuli Daniel and Andrei Sinyavsky in 1966 a the first such public trials since Stalin's day a marked the reversion to a repressive cultural policy. [ 29 ] Under Yuri Andropov the state security service (in the form of the KGB) regained some of the powers it had enjoyed under Stalin, although there was no return to the purges of the 1930s and 1940s, and Stalin's legacy remained largely discredited among the Soviet intelligentsia. [ 31 ] 
By the mid-1970s, there were an estimated 10, 000 political and religious prisoners across the Soviet Union, living in grievous conditions and suffering from malnutrition. Many of these prisoners were considered by the Soviet state to be mentally unfit and were hospitalised in mental asylums across the Soviet Union. Under Brezhnev's rule, the KGB infiltrated most, if not all, anti-government organisations, which ensured that there was little to no opposition against him or his power base. However, Brezhnev refrained from the all-out violence seen under the rule of Stalin. [ 31 ] 
Economics [ edit ] 
Economic growth until 1973 [ edit ] 
Period (according to
the CIA) (according to
Grigorii Khanin) (according to
the USSR) 1960a1965, 4.8 [ 32 ] , 4.4 [ 32 ] , 6.5 [ 32 ] , 1965a1970, 4.9 [ 32 ] , 4.1 [ 32 ] , 7.7 [ 32 ] , 1970a1975, 3.0 [ 32 ] , 3.2 [ 32 ] , 5.7 [ 32 ] , 1975a1980, 1.9 [ 32 ] , 1.0 [ 32 ] , 4.2 [ 32 ] , 1980a1985, 1.8 [ 32 ] , 0.6 [ 32 ] , 3.5 [ 32 ] , [ note 1 ] , Between 1960 and 1970, Soviet agriculture output increased by 3nnually. Industry also improved; during the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1966a1970), the output of factories and mines increased by 138compared to 1960. While the Politburo became aggressively anti-reformist, Kosygin was able to convince both Brezhnev and the politburo to leave the reformist communist leader JAnos KAdAr of the People's Republic of Hungary alone because of an economic reform entitled New Economic Mechanism (NEM), which granted limited permission for the establishment of retail markets. [ 42 ] In the People's Republic of Poland, another approach was taken in 1970 under the leadership of Edward Gierek; he believed that the government needed Western loans to facilitate the rapid growth of heavy industry. The Soviet leadership gave its approval for this, as the Soviet Union could not afford to maintain its massive subsidy for the Eastern Bloc in the form of cheap oil and gas exports. The Soviet Union did not accept all kinds of reforms, an example being the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 in response to Alexander DubAek's reforms. [ 43 ] Under Brezhnev, the Politburo abandoned Khrushchev's decentralisation experiments. By 1966, two years after taking power, Brezhnev abolished the Regional Economic Councils, which were organized to manage the regional economies of the Soviet Union. [ 44 ] 
The Ninth Five-Year Plan delivered a change: for the first time industrial consumer products out-produced industrial capital goods. Consumer goods such as watches, furniture and radios were produced in abundance. The plan still left the bulk of the state's investment in industrial capital-goods production. This outcome was not seen as a positive sign for the future of the Soviet state by the majority of top party functionaries within the government; by 1975 consumer goods were expanding 9lower than industrial capital-goods. The policy continued despite Brezhnev's commitment to make a rapid shift of investment to satisfy Soviet consumers and lead to an even higher standard of living. This did not happen. [ 45 ] 
During 1928a1973, the Soviet Union was growing economically at a pace that would eventually catch up with the United States and Western Europe. This was true despite the advantage the United States had a the USSR was hampered by Joseph Stalin's bold policy of collectivisation and the effects of World War II, which had left most of Western USSR in ruins. In 1973, the process of catching up with the rest of the West came to an abrupt end, and 1973 was seen by some scholars as the start of the Era of Stagnation. The beginning of the stagnation coincided with a financial crisis in Western Europe and the U.S. [ 46 ] By the early 1970s, the Soviet Union had the world's second largest industrial capacity, and produced more steel, oil, pig-iron, cement and tractors than any other country. [ 47 ] Before 1973, the Soviet economy was expanding at a rate faster, by a small margin, than that of the United States. The USSR also kept a steady pace with the economies of Western Europe. Between 1964 and 1973, the Soviet economy stood at roughly half the output per head of Western Europe and a little more than one third that of the U.S. [ 48 ] 
Agricultural policy [ edit ] 
USSR postage stamp of 1979, celebrating the 25th anniversary of the Virgin Lands Campaign 
Brezhnev's agricultural policy reinforced the conventional methods for organising the collective farms. Output quotas continued to be imposed centrally. [ 49 ] Khrushchev's policy of amalgamating farms was continued by Brezhnev, because he shared Khrushchev's belief that bigger kolkhozes would increase productivity. Brezhnev pushed for an increase in state investments in farming, which mounted to an all-time high in the 1970s of 27f all state investmenta this figure did not include investments in farm equipment. In 1981 alone, 33 billion U.S. dollars (by contemporary exchange rate) was invested into agriculture. [ 50 ] 
Agricultural output in 1980 was 21igher than the average production rate between 1966 and 1970. Cereal crop output increased by 18These improved results were not encouraging. In the Soviet Union the criterion for assessing agricultural output was the grain harvest. The import of cereal, which began under Khrushchev, had in fact become a normal phenomenon by Soviet standards. When Brezhnev had difficulties sealing commercial trade agreements with the United States, he went elsewhere, such as to Argentina. Trade was necessary because the Soviet Union's domestic production of fodder crops was severely deficient. Another sector that was hitting the wall was the sugar beet harvest, which had declined by 2n the 1970s. Brezhnev's way of resolving these issues was to increase state investment. Politburo member Gennady Voronov advocated for the division of each farm's work-force into what he called "links". [ 50 ] These "links" would be entrusted with specific functions, such as to run a farm's dairy unit. His argument was that the larger the work force, the less responsible they felt. [ 50 ] This program had been proposed to Joseph Stalin by Andrey Andreyev in the 1940s, and had been opposed by Khrushchev before and after Stalin's death. Voronov was also unsuccessful; Brezhnev turned him down, and in 1973 he was removed from the Politburo. [ 51 ] 
Experimentation with "links" was not disallowed on a local basis, with Mikhail Gorbachev, the then First Secretary of the Stavropol Regional Committee, experimenting with links in his region. In the meantime, the Soviet government's involvement in agriculture was, according to Robert Service, otherwise "unimaginative" and "incompetent". [ 51 ] Facing mounting problems with agriculture, the Politburo issued a resolution titled; "On the Further Development of Specialisation and Concentration of Agricultural Production on the Basis of Inter-Farm Co-operation and Agro-Industrial Integration". [ 51 ] The resolution ordered kolkhozes close to each other to collaborate in their efforts to increase production. In the meantime, the state's subsidies to the food-and-agriculture sector did not prevent bankrupt farms from operating: rises in the price of produce were offset by rises in the cost of oil and other resources. By 1977, oil cost 84ore than it did in the late 1960s. The cost of other resources had also climbed by the late 1970s. [ 51 ] 
Brezhnev's answer to these problems was to issue two decrees, one in 1977 and one in 1981, which called for an increase in the maximum size of privately owned plots within the Soviet Union to half a hectare. These measures removed important obstacles for the expansion of agricultural output, but did not solve the problem. Under Brezhnev, private plots yielded 30f the national agricultural production when they only cultivated 4f the land. This was seen by some as proof that de-collectivisation was necessary to prevent Soviet agriculture from collapsing, but leading Soviet politicians shrank from supporting such drastic measures due to ideological and political interests. [ 51 ] The underlying problems were the growing shortage of skilled workers, a wrecked rural culture, the payment of workers in proportion to the quantity rather than the quality of their work, too large farm machinery for the small collective farms and the roadless countryside. In the face of this, Brezhnev's only options were schemes such as large land reclamation and irrigation projects, or of course, radical reform. [ 52 ] 
Economic stagnation [ edit ] 
Brezhnev speaks at the opening ceremony of the 18th Soviet Young Communist League Congress at the Kremlin Palace (1978) 
The Era of Stagnation, a term coined by Mikhail Gorbachev, was seen as the result of a compilation of factors, including the ongoing "arms race" between the two superpowers, the Soviet Union and the United States; the decision of the Soviet Union to participate in international trade (thus abandoning the idea of economic isolation) while ignoring the changes occurring in Western societies; the increasing harshness of its policies, such as sending Soviet tanks to crush the Prague Spring in 1968; the intervention in Afghanistan; the stifling domestic bureaucracy overseen by a cadre of elderly men; the lack of economic reform; the political corruption, supply bottlenecks, and other unaddressed structural problems with the economy under Brezhnev's rule. [ 53 ] Social stagnation domestically was stimulated by the growing demands of unskilled workers, labour shortages and a decline in productivity and labour discipline. While Brezhnev, albeit "sporadically", [ 30 ] through Alexei Kosygin, attempted to reform the economy in the late 1960s and 1970s, he ultimately failed to produce any positive results. One of these reforms was the economic reform of 1965, initiated by Kosygin, though its origins are often traced back to the Khrushchev Era. The reform was cancelled by the Central Committee, though the Committee admitted that economic problems did exist. [ 54 ] 
In 1973, the Soviet economy slowed, and began to lag behind that of the West due to the high-level of expenditure on the armed forces and too little spending on light industry and consumer goods. Soviet agriculture could not feed the urban population, let alone provide for the rising standard of living, which the government promised as the fruits of "mature socialism", and on which industrial productivity depended. One of the most prominent critics of Brezhnev's economical policies was Mikhail Gorbachev who, when leader, called the economy under Brezhnev's rule "the lowest stage of socialism". [ 55 ] Soviet GNP growth rates began to decrease in the 1970s from the level it held in the 1950s and 1960s; its growth rates began to lag behind Western Europe and the United States. The GNP growth rate was slowing to 1o 2er year, and with Soviet technology falling ever farther behind that of the West, the Soviet Union was facing economic stagnation by the early 1980s. [ 56 ] During Brezhnev's last years in power, the CIA monitored the Soviet Union's economic growth, and reported that the Soviet economy peaked in the 1970s, calculating that it had then reached 57f the American GNP. The development gap between the two nations widened, with the United States growing an average of 1er year above the growth rate of the Soviet Union. [ 57 ] 
The last significant reform undertaken by the Kosygin government, and some believe the pre- perestroika era, was a joint decision of the Central Committee and the Council of Ministers named "Improving planning and reinforcing the effects of the economic mechanism on raising the effectiveness in production and improving the quality of work", more commonly known as the 1979 reform. The reform, in contrast to the 1965 reform, sought to increase the central government's economic involvement by enhancing the duties and responsibilities of the ministries. With Kosygin's death in 1980, and due to his successor Nikolai Tikhonov's conservative approach to economics, very little of the reform was actually carried out. [ 58 ] 
The Eleventh Five-Year Plan of the Soviet Union delivered a disappointing result: a change in growth from 5 to 4During the earlier Tenth Five-Year Plan, they had tried to meet the target of 6.1rowth, but failed. Brezhnev was able to defer economic collapse by trading with Western Europe and the Arab World. [ 57 ] The Soviet Union still out-produced the United States in the heavy industry sector during the Brezhnev era. Another dramatic result of Brezhnev's rule was that certain Eastern Bloc countries became more economically advanced than the Soviet Union. [ 59 ] 
Society [ edit ] 
Brezhnev attending celebrations for the holiday of International Women's Day 
Over the eighteen years that Brezhnev ruled the Soviet Union, average income per head increased by half; three-quarters of this growth came in the 1960s and early 1970s. During the second half of Brezhnev's reign, average income per head grew by one-quarter. [ 46 ] In the first half of the Brezhnev period, income per head increased by 3.5er annum; slightly less growth than what it had been the previous years. This can be explained by Brezhnev's reversal of most of Khrushchev's policies. [ 48 ] Consumption per head rose by an estimated 70nder Brezhnev, but with three-quarters of this growth happening before 1973 and only one-quarter in the second half of his rule. [ 60 ] Most of the increase in consumer production in the early Brezhnev era can be attributed to the Kosygin reform. [ 61 ] 
When the USSR's economic growth stalled in the 1970s, the standard of living and housing quality improved significantly. [ 62 ] Instead of paying more attention to the economy, the Soviet leadership under Brezhnev tried to improve the living standard in the Soviet Union by extending social benefits. This led to an increase, though a minor one, in public support. [ 55 ] The standard of living in the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (RSFSR) had fallen behind that of the Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic (GSSR) and the Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic (ESSR) under Brezhnev; this led many Russians to believe that the policies of the Soviet Government were hurting the Russian population. [ 63 ] The state usually moved workers from one job to another, which ultimately became an ineradicable feature in Soviet industry. [ 64 ] Government industries such as factories, mines and offices were staffed by undisciplined personnel who put a great effort into not doing their jobs; this ultimately led, according to Robert Service, to a "work-shy workforce". [ 65 ] The Soviet Government had no effective counter-measure because of the country's lack of unemployment.
While some areas improved during the Brezhnev era, the majority of civilian services deteriorated and living conditions for Soviet citizens fell rapidly. Diseases were on the rise [ 65 ] because of the decaying healthcare system. The living space remained rather small by First World standards, with the average Soviet person living on 13.4 square metres. Thousands of Moscow inhabitants became homeless, most of them living in shacks, doorways and parked trams. Nutrition ceased to improve in the late 1970s, while rationing of staple food products returned to Sverdlovsk for instance. [ 66 ] 
The state provided recreation facilities and annual holidays for hard-working citizens. Soviet trade unions rewarded hard-working members and their families with beach vacations in Crimea and Georgia. [ 67 ] 
Social rigidification became a common feature of Soviet society. During the Stalin era in the 1930s and 1940s, a common labourer could expect promotion to a white-collar job if he studied and obeyed Soviet authorities. In Brezhnev's Soviet Union this was not the case. Holders of attractive positions clung to them as long as possible; mere incompetence was not seen as a good reason to dismiss anyone. [ 68 ] In this way, too, the Soviet society Brezhnev passed on had become static. [ 69 ] 
Foreign and defence policies [ edit ] 
SovietaU.S. relations [ edit ] 
Brezhnev greets Gerald Ford upon his arrival at Vozdvizhenka for the Vladivostok Summit on 23 November 1974. 
During his eighteen years as Leader of the USSR, Brezhnev's only major foreign policy innovation was dAtente. This did not differ much from the Khrushchev Thaw, a domestic and foreign policy relaxation started by Nikita Khrushchev. Historian Robert Service sees dAtente simply as a continuation of Khrushchev's foreign policy. Despite some increased tension under Khrushchev, EastaWest relations had generally improved, as evidenced by the Partial Test Ban Treaty, the Helsinki Accords and the installation of the red telephone line between the White House and the Kremlin. But Brezhnev's dAtente policy differed from that of Khrushchev in two ways. The first was that it was more comprehensive and wide-ranging in its aims, and included signing agreements on arms control, crisis prevention, EastaWest trade, European security and human rights. The second part of the policy was based on the importance of equalising the military strength of the United States and the Soviet Union. Defence spending under Brezhnev between 1965 and 1970 increased by 40and annual increases continued thereafter. In the year of Brezhnev's death in 1982, 15f GNP was spent on the military. [ 70 ] 
Brezhnev and Ford signing joint communiquA on the SALT treaty in Vladivostok. 
By the mid-1970s, it had become clear that Henry Kissinger's policy of dAtente towards the Soviet Union had failed. The dAtente had rested on the assumption that a "linkage" of some type could be found between the two countries, with the U.S. hoping that the signing of SALT I and an increase in SovietaU.S. trade would stop the aggressive growth of communism in the third world. This did not happen, and the Soviet Union started funding the communist guerillas who fought actively against the U.S. during the Vietnam War. The U.S. lost the Vietnam War and at the same time lost Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam to communism. [ 71 ] After Gerald Ford lost the presidential election to Jimmy Carter, [ 72 ] American foreign policies became more hostile towards the Soviet Union and the communist world, though attempts were also made to stop funding for some repressive anti-communist governments the United States supported. [ 73 ] While at first standing for a decrease in all defense initiatives, the later years of Carter's presidency would increase spending on the U.S. military. [ 72 ] 
In the 1970s, the Soviet Union reached the peak of its political and strategic power in relation to the United States. The first SALT Treaty effectively established parity in nuclear weapons between the two superpowers, [ 74 ] the Helsinki Treaty legitimised Soviet hegemony over Eastern Europe, [ 75 ] and the United States defeat in Vietnam and the Watergate scandal weakened the prestige of the United States. Brezhnev and Nixon also agreed to pass the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty, which banned both countries to design systems that would intercept incoming missiles so that neither the U.S. or the Soviet Union would be tempted to strike the other without the fear of retaliation. [ 76 ] The Soviet Union extended its diplomatic and political influence in the Middle East and Africa. [ 77 ] 
The Vietnam War [ edit ] 
Richard M. Nixon and Leonid Brezhnev talking outside at Camp David 
Nikita Khrushchev had initially supported North Vietnam out of "fraternal solidarity", but as the war escalated he had urged the North Vietnamese leadership to give up the quest of liberating South Vietnam. He continued by rejecting an offer of assistance made by the North Vietnamese government, and instead told them to enter negotiations in the United Nations Security Council. [ 78 ] After Khrushchev's ousting, Brezhnev resumed aiding the communist resistance in Vietnam. In February 1965, Kosygin travelled to Hanoi with a dozen Soviet air force generals and economic experts. During the Soviet visit, President Lyndon B. Johnson had authorised U.S. bombing raids on North Vietnamese soil in retaliation for a recent attack by the Viet Cong. [ 79 ] Johnson privately suggested to Brezhnev that he would guarantee an end to South Vietnamese hostility if Brezhnev would guarantee a North Vietnamese one. Brezhnev was interested in this offer initially, but after being told by Andrei Gromyko that the North Vietnamese government was not interested in a diplomatic solution to the war, Brezhnev rejected the offer. The Johnson administration responded to this rejection by expanding the American presence in Vietnam, but later invited the USSR to negotiate a treaty concerning arms control. The USSR simply did not respond, initially because Brezhnev and Kosygin were fighting over which of them had the right to represent the USSR abroad, but later because of the escalation of the "dirty war" in Vietnam. [ 79 ] In early 1967, Johnson offered to make a deal with Ho Chi Minh, and said he was prepared to end U.S. bombing raids in North Vietnam if Ho ended his infiltration of South Vietnam. The U.S. bombing raids halted for a few days and Kosygin publicly announced his support for this offer. The North Vietnamese government failed to respond, and because of this, the U.S. continued its raids in North Vietnam. The Brezhnev leadership concluded from this event that seeking diplomatic solutions to the ongoing war in Vietnam was hopeless. Later in 1968, Johnson invited Kosygin to the United States to discuss ongoing problems in Vietnam and the arms race. The summit was marked by a friendly atmosphere, but there were no concrete breakthroughs by either side. [ 80 ] 
In the aftermath of the SinoaSoviet border conflict, the Chinese continued to aid the North Vietnamese regime, but with the death of Minh in 1969, China's strongest link to Vietnam was gone. In the meantime, Richard Nixon had been elected President of the United States. While having been known for his anti-communist rhetoric, Nixon said in 1971 that the U.S. " must have relations with Communist China". [ 81 ] His plan was for a slow withdrawal of U.S. troops from Vietnam, while still retaining the government of South Vietnam. The only way he thought this was possible was by improving relations with both Communist China and the USSR. He later made a visit to Moscow to negotiate a treaty on arms control and the Vietnam war, but on Vietnam nothing could be agreed. [ 81 ] On his visit to Moscow, Nixon and Brezhnev signed the SALT I, marking the beginning of the "dAtente" era, which would be proclaimed a "new era of peaceful coexistence" that would replace the hostility that existed during the Cold War. [ 76 ] [ 82 ] 
SinoaSoviet relations [ edit ] 
Soviet foreign relations with the People's Republic of China quickly deteriorated after Nikita Khrushchev's attempts to reach a rapprochement with more liberal Eastern European states such as Yugoslavia and the west. [ 83 ] When Brezhnev consolidated his power base in the 1960s, China was descending into crisis because of Mao Zedong's Cultural Revolution, which led to the decimation of the Communist Party of China and other ruling offices. The Brezhnev leadership who promoted the idea of "stabilisation", could not comprehend why Mao would start such a "self-destructive" drive to finish the socialist revolution, according to himself. [ 84 ] At the same time, Brezhnev had problems of his own, the Czechoslovakian leadership were also deviating from the Soviet model. In the aftermath of the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia, the Soviet leadership proclaimed the Brezhnev doctrine, which said the USSR had the right to intervene in any fraternal communist state that did not follow the Soviet model. [ 84 ] This doctrine increased tension not only with the Eastern Bloc, but also the Asian communist states. By 1969 relations with other communist countries had deteriorated to a level where Brezhnev was not even able to gather five of the fourteen ruling communist parties to attend an international conference in Moscow. In the aftermath of the failed conference, the Soviets concluded, "there were no leading center of the international communist movement." [ 85 ] 
Later in 1969, Chinese forces started the SinoaSoviet border conflict. [ 85 ] The SinoaSoviet split had chagrined Premier Alexei Kosygin a great deal, and for a while refused to accept its irrevocability; he briefly visited Beijing in 1969 due to the increase of tension between the USSR and China. [ 86 ] By the early 1980s, both the Chinese and the Soviets were issuing statements calling for a normalisation of relations between the two states. The conditions given to the Soviets by the Chinese were the reduction of Soviet military presence in the SinoaSoviet border and the withdrawal of Soviets troops in Afghanistan and the Mongolian People's Republic and their support for the Vietnamese invasion of Cambodia. Brezhnev responded in his March 1982 speech in Tashkent where he called for the normalisation of relations. Full SinoaSoviet normalisations of relations would prove to take years, until the last Soviet ruler, Mikhail Gorbachev came to power. [ 87 ] 
Intervention in Afghanistan [ edit ] 
Main article: Soviet war in Afghanistan Carter and Brezhnev sign the SALT II treaty, 18 June 1979, in Vienna. 
After the communist revolution in Afghanistan in 1978, authoritarian actions forced upon the populace by the Communist regime led to the Afghan civil war, with the mujahideen leading the popular backlash against the regime. [ 88 ] The Soviet Union was worried that they were losing their influence in Central Asia, so after a KGB report claimed that Afghanistan could be taken in a matter of weeks, Brezhnev and several top party officials agreed to a full intervention in Afghanistan. [ 73 ] 
Parts of the Soviet military establishment were opposed to any sort of active Soviet military presence in Afghanistan, believing that the Soviet Union should leave Afghan politics alone. President Carter, following the advice of his National Security Advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski, denounced the intervention, describing it as the "most serious danger to peace since 1945". [ 73 ] The U.S. stopped all grain exports to the Soviet Union and boycotted the 1980 Summer Olympics held in Moscow. The Soviet Union responded by boycotting the 1984 Summer Olympics held in Los Angeles. [ 73 ] 
Eastern Europe [ edit ] 
The first crisis for Brezhnev's regime came in 1968, with the attempt by the Communist leadership in Czechoslovakia, under Alexander DubAek, to liberalise the Communist system (Prague Spring). [ 89 ] In July, Brezhnev publicly criticised the Czechoslovak leadership as "revisionist" and "anti-Soviet", and in August he orchestrated the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia, and DubAek's removal. The invasion led to public protests by dissidents in various Eastern Bloc countries. Brezhnev's assertion that the Soviet Union had the right to interfere in the internal affairs of its satellites to "safeguard socialism" became known as the Brezhnev Doctrine, [ 90 ] although it was really a restatement of existing Soviet policy, as enacted by Khrushchev in Hungary in 1956. In the aftermath of the invasion, Brezhnev reiterated it in a speech at the Fifth Congress of the Polish United Workers' Party on 13 November 1968: [ 89 ] 
When forces that are hostile to socialism try to turn the development of some socialist country towards capitalism, it becomes not only a problem of the country concerned, but a common problem and concern of all socialist countries.
aBrezhnev, Speech to the Fifth Congress of the Polish United Workers' Party in November 1968 A stamp showing Brezhnev and Erich Honecker shaking hands Brezhnev at a Party congress in Berlin in 1967 
When the situation in Czechoslovakia was discussed with the Politburo, Brezhnev was not the one pushing hardest for the use of military force. [ 91 ] Brezhnev was aware of the dire situation he was in, and if he had abstained or voted against Soviet intervention in Czechoslovakia he may have been faced with growing turmoila domestically and in the Eastern Bloc. [ 92 ] Archival evidence suggests that Brezhnev [ 91 ] was one of the few who was looking for a temporary compromise with the reform-friendly Czechoslovak government when their relationship was at the brink. Significant voices in the Soviet leadership demanded the re-installation of a so-called 'revolutionary government'. After the military intervention in 1968, Brezhnev met with Czechoslovak reformer Bohumil Simon, then a member of the Politburo of the Czechoslovak Communist Party, and said, "If I had not voted for Soviet armed assistance to Czechoslovakia you would not be sitting here today, but quite possibly I wouldn't either." [ 91 ] 
In the early 1980s a political crisis emerged in Poland with the emergence of the Solidarity mass movement. By the end of October, Solidarity had 3 million members, and by December, had 9 million. In a public opinion poll done by the Polish government, 89f the respondents supported Solidarity. [ 93 ] With the Polish leadership split on what to do, the majority did not want to impose martial law, as suggested by Wojciech Jaruzelski. The Soviet Union and the Eastern Bloc was unsure how to handle the situation, but Erich Honecker of East Germany pressed for military action. In a formal letter to Brezhnev, Honecker proposed a joint military measure to control the escalating problems in Poland. A CIA report suggested the Soviet military were mobilising for an invasion. [ 94 ] 
In 1980 representatives from the Eastern Bloc nations met at the Kremlin to discuss the Polish situation. Brezhnev eventually concluded that it would be better to leave the domestic matters of Poland alone for the time being, reassuring the Polish delegates that the USSR would intervene only if asked to. [ 95 ] With domestic matters escalating out of control in Poland, Wojciech Jaruzelski imposed a state of war, the Polish version of martial law, on 12 December 1981. [ 96 ] 
Further information: Soviet reaction to the Polish crisis of 1980a1981 
Cult of personality [ edit ] 
Further information: Awards and decorations received by Leonid Brezhnev Brezhnev's official portrait, taken in 1977. 
The last years of Brezhnev's rule were marked by a growing personality cult. His love of medals (he received over 100), was well known, so in December 1966, on his 60th birthday, he was awarded the Hero of the Soviet Union. Brezhnev received the award, which came with the Order of Lenin and the Gold Star, three more times in celebration of his birthdays. [ 97 ] On his 70th birthday he was awarded the rank of Marshal of the Soviet Uniona the highest military honour in the Soviet Union. After being awarded the medal, he attended an 18th Army Veterans meeting, dressed in a long coat and saying; "Attention, Marshal's coming!" He also conferred upon himself the rare Order of Victory in 1978 a the only time the decoration was ever awarded outside of World War II. (This medal was posthumously revoked in 1989 for not meeting the criteria for citation.) [ 98 ] 
Brezhnev's weakness for undeserved medals was proven by his poorly written memoirs recalling his military service during World War II, which treated the little-known and minor Battle of Novorossiysk as the decisive military theatre. [ 52 ] Despite the apparent weaknesses of his memoirs, they were awarded the Lenin Prize for Literature and were met with critical acclaim by the Soviet press. [ 98 ] The book was followed by two other books, one on the Virgin Lands Campaign. [ 99 ] Brezhnev's vanity made him the victim of many political jokes. [ 98 ] Nikolai Podgorny warned him of this, but Brezhnev replied, "If they are poking fun at me, it means they like me." [ 100 ] It is now believed by Western historians and political analysts that the books were written by some of his "court writers".
Brezhnev kissed many politicians, the iconic case was the Honecker kiss, [ 101 ] [ 102 ] [ 103 ] [ 104 ] 
Health problems [ edit ] 
Brezhnev's personality cult was growing outrageously at a time when his health was in decline. His physical condition was deteriorating; he was a lifelong heavy smoker, he had become addicted to sleeping pills, and he had begun drinking to excess heavily. Over the years he had become overweight. From 1973 until his death, Brezhnev's central nervous system underwent chronic deterioration and he had several minor strokes and insomnia and narcolepsy combined. In 1975 he suffered his first heart attack. [ 105 ] When receiving the Order of Lenin, Brezhnev walked shakily and fumbled his words. According to one American intelligence expert, United States officials knew for several years that Brezhnev had suffered from severe arteriosclerosis and believed he had suffered from other unspecified ailments as well. In 1977 American intelligence officials publicly suggested that Brezhnev had also been suffering from gout, leukemia and emphysema. [ 106 ] Yevgeniy Chazov, the Chief of the Fourth Directorate of the Ministry of Health, had to keep doctors by Brezhnev's side at all times, and Brezhnev was brought back from near-death on several occasions. At this time, most senior officers of the CPSU wanted to keep Brezhnev alive, even if such men as Mikhail Suslov, Dmitriy Ustinov and Andrei Gromyko, among others, were growing increasingly frustrated with his policies. They did not want to risk a new period of domestic turmoil that might be caused by his death. [ 107 ] At about this time First World commentators started guessing Brezhnev's heirs apparent. The most notable candidates were Suslov and Andrei Kirilenko, who were both older than Brezhnev, and Fyodor Kulakov and Konstantin Chernenko, who were younger; Kulakov died of natural causes in 1978. [ 108 ] 
Last years and death [ edit ] 
Main article: Death and funeral of Leonid Brezhnev 
For the last two years Brezhnev was only a figurehead. His health worsened in the winter of 1981a82. In the meantime, the country was governed by Andrei Gromyko, Dmitriy Ustinov, Mikhail Suslov and Yuri Andropov and crucial Politburo decisions were made in his absence. While the Politburo was pondering the question of who would succeed, all signs indicated that the ailing leader was dying. The choice of the successor would have been influenced by Suslov, but he died at the age of 79 in January 1982. Andropov took Suslov's seat in the Central Committee Secretariat; by May, it became obvious that Andropov would try to make a bid for the office of the General Secretary. He, with the help of fellow KGB associates, started circulating rumours that political corruption had become worse during Brezhnev's tenure as leader, in an attempt to create an environment hostile to Brezhnev in the Politburo. Andropov's actions showed that he was not afraid of Brezhnev's wrath. [ 109 ] 
Brezhnev rarely appeared in public during 1982. The Soviet government claimed that Brezhnev was not seriously ill, but admitted that he was surrounded by doctors. He suffered a severe stroke in May 1982, but refused to relinquish office. On 7 November 1982, despite his failing health, Brezhnev was present standing on Lenin's Mausoleum during the annual military parade and demonstration of workers commemorating the anniversary of the October Revolution. The event would also mark Brezhnev's final public appearance before dying three days later after suffering a heart attack. [ 109 ] He was honoured with a state funeral, which was followed with a five-day period of nationwide mourning. He was buried in the Kremlin Wall Necropolis in Red Square. [ 110 ] National and international statesmen from around the globe attended his funeral. His wife and family attended; his daughter Galina Brezhneva outraged spectators by not showing up in sombre garb. Brezhnev on the other hand was dressed for burial in his Marshal's uniform, along with all his medals. [ 109 ] 
Legacy [ edit ] 
Main article: Legacy of Leonid Brezhnev Brezhnev commemorative plaque donated to the Haus am Checkpoint Charlie in Berlin, Germany 
Brezhnev presided over the Soviet Union for longer than any other person except Joseph Stalin. He is often criticised for the prolonged Era of Stagnation, in which fundamental economic problems were ignored and the Soviet political system was allowed to decline. During Mikhail Gorbachev's tenure as leader there was an increase in criticism of the Brezhnev years, such as claims that Brezhnev followed "a fierce neo-Stalinist line". The Gorbachevian discourse blamed Brezhnev for failing to modernise the country and to change with the times, [ 111 ] although in a later statement Gorbachev made assurances that Brezhnev was not as bad as he was made out to be, saying, "Brezhnev was nothing like the cartoon figure that is made of him now." [ 112 ] The intervention in Afghanistan, which was one of the major decisions of his career, also significantly undermined both the international standing and the internal strength of the Soviet Union. [ 73 ] In Brezhnev's defence, it can be said that the Soviet Union reached unprecedented and never-repeated levels of power, prestige, and internal calm under his rule. [ 113 ] 
Brezhnev has fared well in opinion polls when compared to his successors and predecessors in Russia. In the West he is most commonly remembered for starting the economic stagnation that triggered the dissolution of the Soviet Union. [ 5 ] In an opinion poll by VTsIOM in 2007 the majority of Russians chose to live during the Brezhnev era rather than any other period of 20th century Soviet history. [ 114 ] In a Levada Center poll conducted in 2013, Brezhnev beat Vladimir Lenin as Russia's favourite leader in the 20th century with 56pproval. [ 115 ] In another poll in 2013, Brezhnev was voted the best Russian leader of the 20th century. [ 116 ] 
Personality traits and family [ edit ] 
Caricature of Brezhnev by Edmund S. Valtman 
Brezhnev's vanity became a problem during his reign. For instance, when Moscow City Party Secretary Nikolay Yegorychev refused to sing his praises, he was shunned, forced out of local politics and given only an obscure ambassadorship. Brezhnev's main passion was driving foreign cars given to him by leaders of state from across the world. He usually drove these between his dacha and the Kremlin with, according to historian Robert Service, flagrant disregard for public safety. [ 117 ] 
Brezhnev lived at 26 Kutuzovsky Prospekt, Moscow. During vacations, he lived in his Gosdacha in Zavidovo. He was married to Viktoria Brezhneva (1908a1995). During her final four years she lived virtually alone, abandoned by everybody. She had suffered for a long time from diabetes and was nearly blind in her last years. He had a daughter, Galina, [ 117 ] and a son, Yuri. [ 118 ] Galina in her later life became an alcoholic who together with a circus director started a gold-bullion fraud gang in the later years of the Soviet Union. [ 117 ] 
Notes [ edit ] 
^ Western specialists believe that that the net material product (NMP; Soviet version of gross national product (GNP)) contained distortions and could not accurately determine a country's economic growth; according to some, it greatly exaggerated growth. Because of this, several specialists created GNP figures to estimate Soviet growth rates and to compare Soviet growth rates with the growth rates of capitalist countries. [ 33 ] Grigorii Khanin published his growth rates in the 1980s as a "translation" of NMP to GNP. His growth rates were (as seen above) much lower than the official figures, and lower than some Western estimates. His estimates was widely publicised by conservative think tanks as, for instance, the Heritage Foundation of Washington, D.C.. After the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, Khanin's estimates led several agencies to criticise the estimates made by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). Since then the CIA has often been accused over overestimating Soviet growth. In response to the criticism of CIA's work, a panel led by economist James R. Millar was established to check out if this was in fact true. The panel concluded that the CIA were based on facts, and that "Methodologically, Khanin's approach was naive, and it has not been possible for others to reproduce his results." [ 34 ] Michael Boretsky, a Department of Commerce economist, criticised the CIA estimates to be too low. He used the same CIA methodology to estimate West German and American growth rates. The results were 32elow the official GNP growth for West Germany, and 13 below the official GNP growth for the United States. In the end, the conclusion is the same, the Soviet Union grew rapidly economically until the mid-1970s, when a systematic crisis began. [ 35 ] Growth figures for the Soviet economy varies widely (as seen below): Eighth Five-Year Plan (1966a1970) Gross national product (GNP): 5.2sup id="cite_ref-FOOTNOTEKort2010322_36-0" class="reference"> [ 36 ] , GNP: 5.3sup id="cite_ref-FOOTNOTEBergson1985192_37-0" class="reference"> [ 37 ] , Gross national income (GNI): 7.1sup id="cite_ref-FOOTNOTEPallotShaw198151_38-0" class="reference"> [ 38 ] , Capital investments in agriculture: 24sup id="cite_ref-FOOTNOTEWegren1998252_39-0" class="reference"> [ 39 ] , . Ninth Five-Year Plan (1971a1975) GNP: 3.7sup id="cite_ref-FOOTNOTEKort2010322_36-1" class="reference"> [ 36 ] , GNI: 5.1sup id="cite_ref-FOOTNOTEPallotShaw198151_38-1" class="reference"> [ 38 ] , Labour productivity: 6sup id="cite_ref-FOOTNOTEArnot198867_40-0" class="reference"> [ 40 ] , Capital investments in agriculture: 27sup id="cite_ref-FOOTNOTEWegren1998252_39-1" class="reference"> [ 39 ] , . Tenth Five-Year Plan (1976a1980) GNP: 2.7sup id="cite_ref-FOOTNOTEKort2010322_36-2" class="reference"> [ 36 ] , GNP: 3sup id="cite_ref-FOOTNOTEBergson1985192_37-1" class="reference"> [ 37 ] , Labour productivity: 3.2sup id="cite_ref-FOOTNOTEArnot199867_41-0" class="reference"> [ 41 ] , . Eleventh Five-Year Plan (1981a1985) , References [ edit ] 
^ Wikimedia commons: L.I. Brezhnev military card , ^ Wikimedia commons: Order on awarding Colonel Brezhnev with the Order of the Red Star , ^ Wikimedia commons: L.I.Brezhnev passport scan , ^ Wikimedia commons: Order on awarding L.I.Brezhnev with the Order of the Patriotic War, 1st class , ^ a b c d Bacon and Sandle 2002, p.6. , ^ a b McCauley 1997, p.47. , ^ a b Green and Reeves 1993, p.192. , ^ Murphy 1981, p.80. , ^ Childs 2000, p.84. , ^ a b c McCauley 1997, p.48. , ^ Bacon and Sandle 2002, p.7. , ^ Hough, Jerry F. (November 1982). "Soviet succession and policy choices". Bulletin of Atomic Scientists . p.49 . Retrieved 11 May 2010 . , ^ Hough and Fainsod 1979, p.371. , ^ Korlat, N (18 November 2008). "Ailas podrAao predlog". Blic (in Serbian) . Retrieved 7 September 2009 . , ^ Taubman 2003, p.615. , ^ Taubman 2003, p.616. , ^ Service 2009, p.376. , ^ a b Service 2009, p.377. , ^ Taubman 2003, p.5. , ^ a b c Service 2009, p.378. , ^ McNeal 1975, p.164. , ^ Taubman 2003, p.16. , ^ Service 2009, p.379. , ^ Bacon and Sandle 2002, p.13. , ^ a b Brown 2009, p.403. , ^ Bacon and Sandle 2002, p.10. , ^ Brown 2009, p.402. , ^ Service 2009, p.380. , ^ a b Service 2009, p.381. , ^ a b Sakwa 1999, p.339. , ^ a b Service 2009, p.382. , ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o Bacon and Sandle 2002, p.40. , ^ Kotz and Weir 2007, p.35. , ^ Kotz and Weir 2007, p.39. , ^ Kotz and Weir 2007, p.40. , ^ a b c Kort 2010, p.322. , ^ a b Bergson 1985, p.192. , ^ a b Pallot and Shaw 1981, p.51. , ^ a b Wegren 1998, p.252. , ^ Arnot 1988, p.67. , ^ Arnot 1998, p.67. , ^ Service 2009, p.385. , ^ Service 2009, p.386. , ^ Service 2009, p.389. , ^ Service 2009, p.407. , ^ a b Bacon and Sandle 2002, p.45. , ^ Service 2009, p.397. , ^ a b Bacon and Sandle 2002, p.47. , ^ Service 2009, p.400. , ^ a b c Service 2009, p.401. , ^ a b c d e Service 2009, p.402. , ^ a b Service 2009, p.403. , ^ Bacon and Sandle 2002, pp.1a2. , ^ Sakwa 1999, p.341. , ^ a b Bacon and Sandle 2002, p.28. , ^ Ulam 2002, p.249. , ^ a b Oliver and Aldcroft 2007, p.275. , ^ NNNDD, DNDDNDDN (17 December 2010). "30 DDN DDDDD NDDN DDDDNDD DDNNDDD" [A reformer before Yegor Gaidar? Kosygin died for 30 years ago]. Newsland (in Russian) . Retrieved 29 December 2010 . , ^ Oliver and Aldcroft 2007, p.276. , ^ Bacon and Sandle 2002, p.48. , ^ "DDDDDD DDDDDDDD DDDDDDNDDDD NNDDDN DDDDD DDNDDDDDN" (in Russian). Moscow State University . Retrieved 5 October 2010 . , ^ Sakwa 1998, p.28. , ^ Service 2009, p.423. , ^ Service 2009, p.416. , ^ a b Service 2009, p.417. , ^ Service 2009, p.418. , ^ Service 2009, p.421. , ^ Service 2009, p.422. , ^ Service 2009, p.427. , ^ Bacon and Sandle 2002, p.90. , ^ McCauley 2008, p.75. , ^ a b McCauley 2008, p.76. , ^ a b c d e McCauley 2008, p.77. , ^ "The President". Richard Nixon Presidential Library . Retrieved 11 May 2010 . , ^ Hiden, Made and Smith 2008, p.209. , ^ a b Foner, Eric (1 February 2012). Give Me Liberty!: An American History (3 ed.). W. W. Norton and Company. p.815. ISBN0393935531. accessdate= requires url= (help) , ^ Gaddis 2005, p.178. , ^ Loth 2002, pp.85a86. , ^ a b Loth 2002, p.86. , ^ Loth 2002, pp.86a87. , ^ a b Anderson and Ernst 2007, pp.50a51. , ^ "SALT 1". Department of State . Retrieved 11 April 2010 . , ^ Whitman, Alden (12 September 1971). "Khrushchev's human dimensions brought him to power and to his downfall". The New York Times . Retrieved 5 October 2010 . (fee for article, but available free here) , ^ a b Kornberg and Faust 2005, p.103. , ^ a b Kornberg and Faust 2005, p.104. , ^ Zubok 2007, pp.194a195. , ^ Kornberg and Faust 2005, p.105. , ^ Kakar 1997, p.15. , ^ a b Herd and Moroney 2003, p.5. , ^ McCauley 2008, p.XXIV. , ^ a b c Brown 2009, p.398. , ^ Brown 2009, p.399. , ^ Paczkowski and Byrne 2008, p.11. , ^ Paczkowski and Byrne 2008, p.14. , ^ Paczkowski and Byrne 2008, p.21. , ^ "Martial Law". BBC Online . Retrieved 17 April 2010 . , ^ Bacon and Sandle 2002, p.8. , ^ a b c Bacon and Sandle 2002, p.9. , ^ Abdullaev, Nabi (19 December 2006). "Brezhnev Remembered Fondly 100 Years Since Birth". The St. Petersburg Times . Retrieved 11 April 2010 . , ^ Bacon and Sandle 2002, p.29. , ^ "Kiss of Soviet Leader Brezhnev and East German President Honecker". Corbis . Retrieved 6 June 2013 Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev and East German President Erich Honecker kiss on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the German Democratic Republics. , ^ Brezhnev kissing Jimmy Carter , ^ Dubcek and Brezhnev , ^ Jaruzelski and Brezhnev , ^ Post, Jerrold M. Leaders and Their Followers in a Dangerous World: The Psychology of Political Behavior (Psychoanalysis and Social Theory) p. 96 , ^ Altman, Lawrence K. (13 November 1982). "4 Serious Ailments Plagued Brezhnev". The New York Times . , ^ Service 2009, p.404. , ^ Wesson 1978, p.252. , ^ a b c Service 2009, p.426. , ^ "1982: Brezhnev rumours sweep Moscow". BBC Online. 10 November 1982 . Retrieved 15 April 2010 . , ^ Bacon and Sandle 2002, p.2. , ^ Bacon and Sandle 2002, p.27. , ^ Bacon and Sandle 2002, p.1. , ^ "DDDDD: DNNNDD DDDDNNa DNDDDDD D DNNDD" (in Russian). Rosbalt.ru. 25 April 2007 . Retrieved 15 April 2010 . , ^ "Brezhnev Beats Lenin as Russia's Favorite 20th Century Ruler". RIA Novosti. 22 May 2013 . Retrieved 24 May 2013 . , ^ "Russians name Brezhnev best 20th-century leader, Gorbachev worst". RIA Novosti. 22 May 2013 . Retrieved 9 August 2013 . "Russians name Brezhnev best 20th-century leader, Gorbachev worst" , ^ a b c Service 2009, p.384. , ^ Chiesa 1991, p.23. , Bibliography [ edit ] 
Anderson, David L.; Ernst, John (2007). The War That Never Ends: New Perspectives on the Vietnam War . University Press of Kentucky. ISBN978-0813124735. , Arnot, Bob (1988). Controlling Soviet Labour: Experimental Change from Brezhnev to Gorbachev . M.E. Sharpe. p.67. ISBN978-0873324700. , Bacon, Edwin; Sandle, Mark (2002). Brezhnev Reconsidered . Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN978-0333794630. , Bergson, Abram (1985). The Soviet Economy: Toward the Year 2000 . Taylor and Francis. ISBN978-0-04-335053-9. , Brown, Archie (2009). The Rise and Fall of Communism . Bodley Head. ISBN978-0061138799. , Byrne, Malcolm; Paczkowski, Andrzej (2008). From Solidarity to Martial Law: The Polish Crisis of 1980a1981 . Central European University Press. p.548. ISBN978-9637326844. , Chiesa, Giuliettlo (1991). Time of Change: Insider's View of Russia's Transformation . I.B.Tauris. ISBN978-1850433057. , Childs, David (2000). The Two Red Flags: European Social Democracy and Soviet communism since 1945 . Routledge. ISBN978-0415171816. , Hough, Jerry; Fainsod, Merle (1979). How the Soviet Union is Governed . Harvard University Press. ISBN978-0674410305. , Kornberg, Judith; Faust, John (2005). China in World Politics: Policies, Processes, Prospects . UBC Press. ISBN978-1588262486. , Gaddis, John Lewis (2005). The Cold War: A New History . Penguin Press. ISBN978-1594200625. , Herd, Graeme P.; Moroney, Jennifer D. (2003). Security Dynamics in the former Soviet Bloc 1 . Routledge. ISBN978-0415297325. , Hiden, John; Made, Vahur; Smith, David J. (2008). The Baltic Question during the Cold War . Routledge. ISBN978-0415569347. , Pallot, Judith; Shaw, Denis (1981). Planning in the Soviet Union . Taylor and Francis. p.51. ISBN978-0-85664-571-6. , Kakar, M. Hassan (1997). Afghanistan: The Soviet Invasion and the Afghan Response, 1979a1982 . University of California Press. ISBN978-0520208933. , McNeal, Robert (1975). The Bolshevik Tradition: Lenin, Stalin, Khrushchev, Brezhnev . Spectrum. ASINB001VLGRB8. , Kort, Michael (2010). The Soviet Colossus: History and Aftermath . M.E. Sharpe. ISBN978-0-7656-2387-4. , Kotz, David Michael; Weir, Fred (2007). Russia's Path from Gorbachev to Putin: The Demise of the Soviet System and the New Russia . Taylor and Francis. ISBN978-0-415-70146-4. , Loth, Wilfried (2002). Overcoming the Cold War: a history of dAtente, 1950a1991 . Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN978-0-333-97111-6. , McCauley, Martin (1997). Who's who in Russia since 1900 . Routledge. ISBN0-415-13898-1. , McCauley, Martin (2008). Russia, America and the Cold War, 1949a1991 . Pearson Education. ISBN978-0582279360. , Murphy, Paul J. (1980). Brezhnev: Soviet Politician . McFarland and Company. ISBN978-0899500027. , Oliver, Michael J.; Aldcroft, Derek Howard (2007). Economic Disasters of the Twentieth Century . Edward Elgar Publishing. ISBN978-1848441583. , Green, William; Reeves, W. Robert (1993). The Soviet Military Encyclopedia: AaF . Westview Press. ISBN978-0813314297. , Sakwa, Richard (1998). Soviet Politics in Perspective . Routledge. ISBN978-0415071536. , Sakwa, Richard (1999). The Rise and Fall of the Soviet Union: 1917a1991 . Routledge. ISBN978-0582784659. , Service, Robert (2009). History of Modern Russia: From Tsarism to the Twenty-first Century (3 ed.). Penguin Books Ltd. ISBN978-0674034938. , Taubman, William (2003). Khrushchev: The Man and His Era . W. W. Norton and Company. ISBN978-0393051445. , Wegren, Stephen (1998). Agriculture and the State in Soviet and Post-Soviet Russia . University of Pittsburgh Press. ISBN978-0-8229-8585-3. , Wesson, Robert G (1978). Lenin's Legacy: The Story of the CPSU . Hoover Press. ISBN978-0817969226. , Zubok, Vladislav Martinovich (2007). A Failed Empire: the Soviet Union in the Cold War from Stalin to Gorbachev . UNC Press. ISBN978-0807859582. , . 
External links [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Leonid Brezhnev ., Wikiquote has quotations related to: Leonid Brezhnev , Wikisource has original works written by or about:
Leonid Brezhnev , Annotated Bibliography for Leonid Brezhnev from the Alsos Digital Library for Nuclear Issues, Our Course: Peace and Socialism Collection of Brezhnev's 1973 speeches, CCCP TV Videoprograms with L. Brezhnev on Soviet TV portal (in Russian), Brezhnev's rules in 14 points by RIA Novosti, . 
Party political offices Precededby
Pavel Naidenov , Leader of the Regional Party Committee of Dnipropetrovsk 
1947a1950, Succeededby
Andrei Kirilenko , Precededby
Nicolae Coval , First Secretary of the Communist Party of Moldova 
1950a1952, Succeededby
Dimitri Gladki , Precededby
Panteleimon Ponomarenko , First Secretary of the Communist Party of Kazakhstan 
1955a1956, Succeededby
Ivan Yakovlev , Precededby
Nikita Khrushchev , General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union 
1964a1982, Succeededby
Yuri Andropov , Chairman of the Bureau of the Central Committee of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic 
1964a1966, Position abolished , Political offices Precededby
Kliment Voroshilov , Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet 
1960a1964, Succeededby
Anastas Mikoyan , Precededby
Nikolai Podgorny , Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet 
1977a1982, Succeededby
Yuri Andropov , v , t , e , . Politics of the Soviet Union 1964a1985 ("Era of Stagnation") , Events 1964a1982 Collective leadership, Glassboro Summit Conference, Prague Spring, Invasion of Czechoslovakia, 1968 Red Square demonstration, Brezhnev Doctrine, Brezhnev assassination attempt, Sino-Soviet border conflict, DAtente, Vladivostok Summit, Helsinki Accords, 1977 Moscow bombings, 1977 Soviet Constitution, 1978 Georgian demonstrations, War in Afghanistan, 1980 Summer Olympics, Reaction to 1980a1981 Polish crisis, Exercise Zapad, Death and state funeral of Leonid Brezhnev, Legacy of Leonid Brezhnev, . , Events 1982a1985 RYAN, Korean Air Lines Flight 007, 1983 false nuclear alarm incident, Able Archer 83, 1984 Summer Olympics boycott, Friendship Games, . , Politburo members
22nd , 23rd , 24th , 25th , 26th , . Aliyev, Andropov, Brezhnev , Chebrikov, Chernenko, Demichev, Dolgikh, Efremov, Gorbachev, Grechko, Grishin, Gromyko, Kirilenko, Kiselyov, Konayev, Kosygin, Kulakov, Kuznetsov, Masherov, Mazurov, Mikoyan, Mzhavanadze, PelAe, Podgorny, Polyansky, Ponomarev, Rashidov, Romanov, Shcherbytsky, Shelepin, Shelest, Shevardnadze, Shvernik, Solomentsev, Suslov, Tikhonov, Ustinov, Voronov, Vorotnikov, . , Leaders The Troika ( Brezhnev , Kosygin, Podgorny), Yuri Andropov, Konstantin Chernenko, . , Governments Kosygin's 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, Tikhonov's 1st, 2nd, . , National economy 
Reforms 1965, 1973, 1979, Food Programme, 1984, . , Five-Year Plans 8th Plan, 9th Plan, 10th Plan, 11th Plan, . , Brezhnev's family Churbanov (son-in-law), Galina (daughter), Lyubov (niece), Viktoria (wife), Yakov (brother), Yuri (son), . , Soviet Union portal , v , t , e , . Heads of state of the Soviet Union , Heads of state Kalinin (1922a1946), Shvernik (1946a1953), Voroshilov (1953a1960), Brezhnev (1960a1964), Mikoyan (1964a1965), Podgorny (1965a1977), Brezhnev (1977a1982), Andropov (1982a1984), Chernenko (1984a1985), Gromyko (1985a1988), Gorbachev (1988a1991), . , Vice heads of state Kuznetsov (1977a1986), Demichev (1986a1988), Lukyanov (1988a1990), Yanayev (1990a1991), . , Presidents of Russian SFSR , Presidents of Russia , . , v , t , e , . History of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union , Organization Congress, Conference, General Secretary, Politburo, Secretariat, Orgburo, Central Committee, Control Commission, Auditing Commission, Komsomol, Young Pioneers, Pravda , . , Congress 1st (1898), 2nd (1903), 3rd (1905), 4th (1906), 5th (1907), 6th (1917), 7th (1918), 8th (1919), 9th (1920), 10th (1921), 11th (1922), 12th (1923), 13th (1924), 14th (1925), 15th (1927), 16th (1930), 17th (1934), 18th (1939), 19th (1952), 20th (1956), 21st (1959), 22nd (1961), 23rd (1966), 24th (1971), 25th (1976), 26th (1981), 27th (1986), 28th (1990), . , Conference 1st (1905), 2nd (1906), 3rd (August 1907), 4th (November 1907), 5th (1908), 6th (1912), 7th (1917), 8th (1919), 9th (1920), 10th (May 1921), 11th (December 1921), 12th (1922), 13th (1924), 14th (1925), 15th (1926), 16th (1929), 17th (1932), 18th (1941), 19th (1988), . , Party leadership 
General/First
Secretaries Vladimir Lenin (1912a24), Joseph Stalin (1929a53), Nikita Khrushchev (1953a64), Leonid Brezhnev (1964a82), Yuri Andropov (1982a84), Konstantin Chernenko (1984a85), Mikhail Gorbachev (1985a91), . , Politburo Aug.aOct. 1917, Oct.aDec. 1917, 6th (1917a18), 7th (1918a19), 8th (1919a20), 9th (1920a21), 10th (1921a22), 11th (1922a23), 12th (1923a24), 13th (1924a25), 14th (1926a27), 15th (1927a30), 16th (1930a34), 17th (1934a39), 18th (1939a52), 19th (1952a56), 20tha21st (1956a61), 22nd (1961a66), 23rd (1966a71), 24th (1971a76), 25th (1976a81), 26th (1981a86), 27th (1986a90), 28th (1990a91), . , Secretariat 6th (1917a18), 7th (1918a19), 8th (1919a20), 9th (1920a21), 10th (1921a22), 11th (1922a23), 12th (1923a24), 13th (1924a25), 14th (1926a27), 15th (1927a30), 16th (1930a34), 17th (1934a39), 18th (1939a52), 19th (1952a56), 20tha21st (1956a61), 22nd (1961a66), 23rd (1966a71), 24th (1971a76), 25th (1976a81), 26th (1981a86), 27th (1986a90), 28th (1990a91), . , Orgburo 7th (Jan.aMar. 1919), 8th (1919a20), 9th (1920a21), 10th (1921a22), 11th (1922a23), 12th (1923a24), 13th (1924a26), 14th (1926a27), 15th (1927a30), 16th (1930a34), 17th (1934a39), 18th (1939a52), . , Central
Committee 1sta3rd (1898a05), 4th (1906a07), 5th (1907a17), 6th (1917a18), 7th (1918a19), 8th (1919a20), 9th (1920a21), 10th (1921a22), 11th (1922a23), 12th (1923a24), 13th (1924a26), 14th (1926a27), 15th (1927a30), 16th (1930a34), 17th (1934a39), 18th (1939a52), 19th (1952a56), 20tha21st (1956a61), 22nd (1961a66), 23rd (1966a71), 24th (1971a76), 25th (1976a81), 26th (1981a86), 27th (1986a90), 28th (1990a91), . , Departments of the
Central Committee Administrative Organs, Agriculture, Chemical Industry, Construction, Culture, Defence Industry, Foreign Cadres, General, Heavy Industry, Information, International, Light- and Food Industry, Machine Industry, Organisational-party Work, Planning and Financial Organs, Political Administration of the Ministry of Defence, Propaganda, Science and Education, Trade and Consumers' Services, Transportation-Communications, . , Republican branches Armenia, Azerbaijan, Byelorussia, Bukhara, Estonia, Georgia, Karelo-Finland, Kazakhstan, Khorezm, Kirghizia, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldavia, Russia, Tajikistan, Transcaucasia, Turkestan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, . , v , t , e , . Marshals of the Soviet Union , Voroshilov, Tukhachevsky, Budyonny, Yegorov, Blyukher, Timoshenko, Kulik, Shaposhnikov, Zhukov, Vasilevsky, Stalin (Generalissimus), Konev, Govorov, Rokossovsky, Malinovsky, Tolbukhin, Meretskov, Beria, Sokolovsky, Bulganin, Bagramyan, Biryuzov, Grechko, Yeryomenko, Moskalenko, Chuikov, Zakharov, Golikov, Krylov, Yakubovsky, Batitsky, Koshevoy, Brezhnev , Ustinov, Kulikov, Ogarkov, Sokolov, Akhromeyev, Kurkotkin, Petrov, Yazov, . , v , t , e , . Leaders of Moldova , Moldavian Republic Ion InculeE, . , Moldavian SSR Piotr Borodin, Nikita Salogor (acting) , Nicolae Coval, Leonid Brezhnev , Dimitri Gladki, Zinovie Serdiuk, Ivan Bodiul, Semion Grossu, Petru Lucinschi, Grigore Eremei, . , Republic of Moldova Mircea Snegur, Petru Lucinschi, Vladimir Voronin, Mihai Ghimpu (acting) , Vlad Filat (acting) , Marian Lupu (acting) , Nicolae Timofti, . , v , t , e , . Leaders of Kazakhstan , Kazakh SSR Levon Mirzoyan, Nikolay Skvortsov, Zhumabay Shayakhmetov, Panteleimon Ponomarenko, Leonid Brezhnev , Ivan Yakovlev, Nikolai Belyaev, Dinmukhamed Konayev, Ismail Yusupov, Dinmukhamed Konayev, Gennady Kolbin, Nursultan Nazarbayev, . , Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, . , v , t , e , . Leaders of the ruling parties of the Eastern Bloc , Communist Party of the Soviet Union , . Vladimir Lenin, Joseph Stalin, Nikita Khrushchev, Leonid Brezhnev , Yuri Andropov, Konstantin Chernenko, Mikhail Gorbachev, . , Party of Labour of Albania Enver Hoxha, Ramiz Alia, . , Bulgarian Communist Party Georgi Dimitrov, Valko Chervenkov, Todor Zhivkov, Petar Mladenov, . , Communist Party of Czechoslovakia Klement Gottwald, AntonAn Novotny, Alexander DubAek, GustAv HusAk, MiloA JakeA, Karel UrbAnek, Ladislav Adamec, . , Socialist Unity Party of Germany Walter Ulbricht, Erich Honecker, Egon Krenz, . , Hungarian Working People's Party
Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party MAtyAs RAkosi, ErnA GerA, JAnos KAdAr, KAroly GrAsz, RezsA Nyers, . , Polish United Workers' Party WAadysAaw GomuAka, BolesAaw Bierut, Edward Ochab, WAadysAaw GomuAka, Edward Gierek, StanisAaw Kania, Wojciech Jaruzelski, MieczysAaw Rakowski, . , Romanian Communist Party Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej, Nicolae CeauEescu, . , League of Communists of Yugoslavia Milan GorkiA, Josip Broz Tito, (1980a1990, rotating leadership) , . , Authority control WorldCat, VIAF: 7387544 , LCCN: n79084765 , GND: 118515136 , SELIBR: 42892 , SUDOC: 026751011 , BNF: cb11893880z (data) , MusicBrainz: a77b02e5-b079-4b65-a8f9-1caee429ea64 , NLA: 35021769 , NDL: 00434335 , NKC: jn19990210130 , . , Persondata Name, Brezhnev, Leonid Ilyich, Alternative names, DNDDDDD, DDDDDD DDNDN (Russian); DNDIDDND, DDDDNID DDDNIN (Ukrainian), Short description, Soviet politician and General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, Date of birth, 19 December 1906, Place of birth, Kamenskoe, Imperial Russia, Date of death, 10 November 1982, Place of death, Moscow, Russian SFSR, Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Leonid_Brezhnev and oldid=632618453" Categories: Heroes of the Soviet Union, 1906 births, 1982 deaths, People from Dniprodzerzhynsk, People from Yekaterinoslav Governorate, Russians in Ukraine, Brezhnev family, Cold War leaders, Commanders Grand Cross of the Order of the White Rose of Finland, Commanders of the Order of the Star of Romania, Communist Party of Kazakhstan politicians, First Secretaries of the Communist Party of Moldova, Grand Cross of the Order of the Sun (Peru), Grand Crosses of the Order of Polonia Restituta, Grand Crosses of the Order of the White Lion, Heads of state of the Soviet Union, Heads of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, Heroes of Socialist Labour, Heroes of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, Heroes of the Mongolian People's Republic, International opponents of apartheid in South Africa, Lenin Peace Prize recipients, Leonid Brezhnev, Marshals of the Soviet Union, People of the Soviet war in Afghanistan, People of the Vietnam War, Politburo of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union members, Politicians of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Quadruple Heroes of the Soviet Union, Recipients of the Order of the Cross of Grunwald, 2nd class, Recipients of the Czechoslovak War Cross, Recipients of the Order of Bogdan Khmelnitsky (Soviet Union), 2nd class, Recipients of the Order of Georgi Dimitrov, Recipients of the Order of Karl Marx, Recipients of the Order of Klement Gottwald, Recipients of the Order of Lenin, eight times, Recipients of the Order of Sukhbaatar, Recipients of the Order of the October Revolution, twice, Recipients of the Order of the Patriotic War, 1st class, Recipients of the Order of the Red Banner, twice, Recipients of the Order of the Red Star, Recipients of the Order of the Yugoslav Star, Recipients of the Order of Victory, National Heroes of the Republic of Cuba, Russian communists, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Burials at the Kremlin Wall Necropolis, . Hidden categories: CS1 Serbian-language sources (sr), CS1 Russian-language sources (ru), Pages using citations with accessdate and no URL, Use dmy dates from June 2013, Good articles, Articles with Russian-language external links, Articles with Ukrainian-language external links, Articles containing Russian-language text, Articles containing Ukrainian-language text, Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers, Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers, Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers, Wikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiers, Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers, Wikipedia articles with MusicBrainz identifiers, Wikipedia articles with NLA identifiers, VIAF different on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
Afrikaans, OUOOOUO, AzErbaycanca, aaaaa, DDNODNNND, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, DNDDDNNDD, Bosanski, Brezhoneg, CatalA, DODDNDD, AeAtina, Cymraeg, Dansk, Deutsch, Eesti, IIIIIIII, EspaAol, Esperanto, Euskara, UOOOU, FranAais, Frysk, Gaeilge, Galego, iei, OOOOOOO, aaaaaa, Hrvatski, Ido, Bahasa Indonesia, Aslenska, Italiano, aaaaaaa, ODDDOND, DNNDNDND, Latina, LatvieAu, LietuviA, Magyar, DDDDDDDNDD, Malagasy, aaaaa, aaaaaaaaa, Bahasa Melayu, DDDDDD, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, DDND DDNDD, OEzbekcha, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, DDND NNDD, Shqip, Sicilianu, Simple English, SlovenAina, SlovenAAina, DNDNDD / srpski, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Suomi, Svenska, Tagalog, aaaaa, DDNDNND/tatarAa, aaa, DDODDO, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, Tiang Viat, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 5 November 2014 at 22:54.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
