
Liberalism in Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Liberalism in Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search This article is about liberal parties. For the Russian nationalist party, see Liberal Democratic Party of Russia. 
, This article may be expanded with text translated from the corresponding article in the Russian Wikipedia . (September 2012) Click [show] on the right to read important instructions before translating. View a machine-translated version of the Russian article. , Google's machine translation is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. , Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. , After translating, {{TranslatedruDDDDNDDDDD D DDNNDD}} must be added to the talk page to ensure copyright compliance. , For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation. , . , This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2014) , Part of a series on, Liberalism , Development History of liberalism, Contributions to liberal theory, . , Ideas Political freedom, . Cultural liberalism, Democratic capitalism, Democratic education, Economic liberalism, Egalitarianism, Free trade, Harm principle, Individualism, Laissez-faire, Liberal democracy, Liberal neutrality, Market economy, Negative / positive liberty, Open society, Permissive society, Popular sovereignty, Rights (individual), Secularism, Separation of church and state, . , Variants Anarcho-capitalism, Classical, Conservative, Democratic, Green, Liberal feminism, Liberal internationalism, Libertarianism, Market, National, Neoliberalism, Ordoliberalism, Paleoliberalism, Radical centrism, Radicalism, Religious, Secular, Social, Socialist, . , People FrAdAric Bastiat, Jeremy Bentham, Isaiah Berlin, Anders Chydenius, Joel Feinberg, Adam Ferguson, Milton Friedman, David Lloyd George, William Ewart Gladstone, Thomas Hill Green, VAclav Havel, Friedrich Hayek, Leonard Trelawny Hobhouse, Wilhelm von Humboldt, David Hume, Thomas Jefferson, Immanuel Kant, Adamantios Korais, Wilfrid Laurier, John Locke, Thomas Babington Macaulay, Thomas Robert Malthus, Giuseppe Mazzini, John Stuart Mill, Ludwig von Mises, Montesquieu, Robert Nozick, Thomas Paine, Lester B. Pearson, Ayn Rand, John Rawls, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Murray Rothbard, Adam Smith, Alexis de Tocqueville, Pierre Trudeau, Mary Wollstonecraft, Helen Zille, . , Organizations Liberal parties, Africa Liberal Network (ALN), Alliance of Liberals and
Democrats for Europe (ALDE) , Alliance of Liberals and Democrats
for Europe Party (ALDEP) , Arab Alliance for Freedom
and Democracy (AAFD) , Council of Asian Liberals
and Democrats (CALD) , European Democratic Party (EDP), European Liberal Youth (LYMEC), International Federation of
Liberal Youth (IFLRY) , Liberal International, Liberal Network for
Latin America (RELIAL) , . , Liberalism portal, Politics portal , . , v , t , e , . , This article gives an overview of liberalism in Russia . It is limited to liberal parties with substantial support, namely those that have had a representation in parliament. The sign a denotes another party in the scheme. The listed parties didn't necessarily label themselves as liberal.
Russian liberals advocate the expansion of political and civil freedoms and mostly opposite to Vladimir Putin. In Russia, the term "liberal" can refer to wide range of politicians a simultaneously to Thatcherism/Reaganomics-related pro-capitalism conservative politicians (they are related to 1990s shock therapy "liberal" reforms), to centre-right liberal politicians (as in European political spectrum) and to left-liberal politicians (as in the US political spectrum). The term "liberal democrats" is often used for members of nationalist far-right Liberal Democratic Party of Russia. There are opposition (Russian opposition) and pro-government (pro-Putin) liberal politicians in Russia. Pro-government liberal politicians support Putin's liberal policy in economics.
There is no liberal factions in Russian parliament at the moment. Centre-left liberalism was represented in the State Duma of Russian parliament by the political party Yabloko (7.86n 1993 election, 6.89n 1995, 5.93n 1999). Pro-government liberalism was represented by the Our Home a Russia (10.13n 1995 election), the liberal political party founded by Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin. Centre-right liberalism was represented by the pro-capitalist party Democratic Choice of Russia (15.51n 1993) and its successor, the Union of Right Forces (8.52n 1999 election).
The Russian United Democratic Party "Yabloko" and the Republican Party of Russia a People's Freedom Party are members of Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Party. [ 1 ] The Yabloko is also a member of Liberal International.
Contents
1 Liberalism in the Russian Federation 1.1 History , 1.2 Yabloko (1993a) , 1.3 Pro-Chernomyrdin and regional party (1995a2000) , 1.4 Democratic Choice of Russia (1993a1999) , 1.5 Union of Right Forces (1999a2008) , 1.6 Pro-Vladimir Putin liberal projects , 1.7 Solidarnost wide movement (2008a) , 1.8 Republican Party of Russia a People's Freedom Party (de facto 2010a) , 1.9 Mikhail Prokhorov's party , . , 2 Russian Empire 2.1 Background , 2.2 From Liberation Union to Constitutional Democratic Party , 2.3 Union of October 17 , 2.4 Moderate Progressive Party , 2.5 Party of Democratic Reform , 2.6 From Party of Peaceful Renovation to Progressist Party , . , 3 List of various liberal leaders , 4 See also , 5 References , . 
Liberalism in the Russian Federation [ edit ] 
History [ edit ] 
After the fall of communism, several new liberal parties were formed, but only one of them Yabloko ( Yabloko a Rosiyskaya Demokraticheskaya Partiya , a member of Liberal International) succeeded in becoming a relevant force. This is a left-of-center liberal party. The Union of Rightist Forces ( Soyuz Pravykh Sil , a member of International Democrat Union) is a right-of-center liberal party. It can also be seen as a democratic conservative market party. In this scheme, the party is not included as liberal, being considered a democratic conservative party, but it can also be called liberal because of its pro-free-market and anti-authoritarianism stances. The so-called Liberal Democratic Party of Russia is not at all "liberal" a it is a nationalist, right-wing, populist party.
Yabloko (1993a) [ edit ] 
Main article: Yabloko See also: Grigory Yavlinsky 1993: Diverse new political parties merged into the social liberal Yavlinksii-Boldyrev-Lukin electoral bloc , led by Grigorii Yavlinskii., 1994: The party is renamed Yabloko ( Yabloko )., 1995: The party is officially registered., 2003: The party is renamed Russian Democratic Party Yabloko ( Rosiyskaya Demokraticheskaya Partiya/DDNNDDNDDN DDDDDNDNDNDNDDN DDNNDN DDDDDD )., . 
The Yabloko is a member of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Party and Liberal International.
Pro-Chernomyrdin and regional party (1995a2000) [ edit ] 
Main article: Our Home a Russia See also: Viktor Chernomyrdin 
, This section requires expansion. (September 2013) , Democratic Choice of Russia (1993a1999) [ edit ] 
Main article: Democratic Choice of Russia See also: Yegor Gaidar 
The Democratic Choice of Russia was a centre-right liberal pro-capitalist political party.
, This section requires expansion. (September 2013) , Union of Right Forces (1999a2008) [ edit ] 
Main article: Union of Right Forces See also: Yegor Gaidar, Irina Khakamada, Boris Nemtsov, Anatoly Chubais and Nikita Belykh 
The Union of Right Forces was a Russian centre-right liberal opposition political party.
, This section requires expansion. (September 2013) , Pro-Vladimir Putin liberal projects [ edit ] 
Main articles: Civilian Power, Right Cause (political party in Russia) and Democratic Party of Russia See also: Putin regime, Power vertical and Media freedom in Russia 
, This section requires expansion. (September 2013) , Solidarnost wide movement (2008a) [ edit ] 
Main article: Solidarnost 
Solidarnost is a liberal democratic political movement founded in 2008 by a number of well-known members of the liberal democratic opposition, including Garry Kasparov, Boris Nemtsov and others from the Yabloko and former Union of Right Forces (which had just merged with two pro-Kremlin parties).
, This section requires expansion. (September 2013) , Republican Party of Russia a People's Freedom Party (de facto 2010a) [ edit ] 
Main articles: Republican Party of Russia a People's Freedom Party, People's Freedom Party "For Russia without Lawlessness and Corruption" and Russian People's Democratic Union 
People's Freedom Party "For Russia without Lawlessness and Corruption" is a liberal democratic coalition founded in 2010 by opposition politicians Vladimir Ryzhkov, Boris Nemtsov, Mikhail Kasyanov and Vladimir Milov and their organisations Republican Party of Russia, Solidarnost, Russian People's Democratic Union and Democratic Choice. The RPR-PARNAS is a member of Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Party. [ 2 ] 
In 2012, the coalition merged into the officially registered Russian political party RPR-PARNAS (Republican Party of Russia a People's Freedom Party).
The RPR-PARNAS is a centre-right liberal opposition political party and it represented in regional parliament in Yaroslavl Oblast.
, This section requires expansion. (September 2013) , Mikhail Prokhorov's party [ edit ] 
Main article: Civic Platform (Russia) 
, This section requires expansion. (September 2013) , Russian Empire [ edit ] 
Background [ edit ] 
Mikhail Speransky is sometimes called the father of Russian liberalism. His ideas were discussed and elaborated by such 19th-century liberal republican radicals as Alexander Herzen, Boris Chicherin, and Konstantin Kavelin. Based on their ideals, various early 20th-century liberal parties evolved, the most important of them being the Constitutional-democratic Party, headed by Pavel Milyukov.
From Liberation Union to Constitutional Democratic Party [ edit ] 
1905: The Liberation Union ( Soyuz Osvobozhdeniya ) merged with the Union of Zemstvo-Constitutionalists ( Soyuz Zemstev-Konstitutsionistov ) to form the liberal Constitutional Democratic Party ( Konstitutsiono-Demokraticheskaya Partya ), formally known as the Party of Popular Freedom ( Partiya Narodnoy Svobody ), led by Pavel Milyukov., 1906: A faction forms the a Party of Democratic Reform , October 26 O.S., 1917: The party's newspapers were shut down by the new Soviet regime, November 28 O.S., 1917: Banned by the Soviet regime, the party went underground, 1918-1920: Many party leaders were active in the White movement, 1921-early 1930s: The party continued to function in exile, but slowly disintegrated, . 
Union of October 17 [ edit ] 
1905: Conservative liberals formed the Union of October 17 ( Soyuz Semnadtsatovo Oktyabrya ) and became known as Octobrists ., 1906: A left wing faction formed the a Party for Peaceful Renewal, the party develops to be the party of the landlords., March 1917: Dissolved after the February Revolution., . 
Moderate Progressive Party [ edit ] 
1905: National liberals established the Moderate Progressive Party ( Umereno-Progresivnaya Partiya )., 1907: Merged into the a Party for Peaceful Renewal., . 
Party of Democratic Reform [ edit ] 
1906: A moderate faction of the a Constitutional Democratic Party formed the Party of Democratic Reform ( Partiya Demokraticheskikh Reform )., 1912: Merged into the a Progressive Party., . 
From Party of Peaceful Renovation to Progressist Party [ edit ] 
1906: A left-wing faction of the Octobrists, together with dissidents of the Constitutional Democratic Party and of the Moderate Progressive Party, established the Party of Peaceful Renovation ( Partiya Mirnovo Obnovleniya )., 1912: Merged with the a Party of Democratic Reform into the Progressist Party ( Progresivnaya Partiya ), led by Georgy Lvov., 1917: Most of the party merged into the a Constitutional Democratic Party, some continued as the Radical Democratic Party ( Radikal'no-Demokraticheskaya Partiya )., . 
List of various liberal leaders [ edit ] 
Pre-revolution: Pavel Milyukov, Georgy Lvov, Dissidence during communism: Andrei Sakharov, . 
See also [ edit ] 
History of Russia, Politics of Russia, Political parties in Russia, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ http://svobodanaroda.org/news/4361/ , ^ http://svobodanaroda.org/news/4361/ , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism , Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Liberalism in Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia , Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . Liberalism in Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Liberalism_in_Russia and oldid=626468251" Categories: Liberalism in Russia, Political movements in Russia, . Hidden categories: Articles to be expanded from September 2012, All articles to be expanded, Articles needing translation from Russian Wikipedia, Articles needing additional references from September 2014, All articles needing additional references, Articles to be expanded from September 2013, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DNNNDDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 21 September 2014 at 12:05.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
