
Lower house - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Lower house 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search For the demesne in The Keys to the Kingdom series, see The House (The Keys to the Kingdom)#The Lower House. 
Legislature Chambers Unicameralism, Multicameralism, Bicameralism, . Tricameralism, Tetracameralism, . Upper house (Senate) , Lower house , . , Parliament Parliamentary system, Parliamentary group, . Member of parliament, International parliament, . , Parliamentary procedure Committee, Quorum, Motion (no-confidence) , . , Types Congress (Member of Congress) , . City council (Councillor) , The Estates, . , Legislatures by country, v , t , e , . , A lower house is one of two chambers of a bicameral legislature, the other chamber being the upper house. [ 1 ] 
Inside the Australian House of Representatives 
Despite its official position "below" the upper house, in many legislatures worldwide, the lower house has come to wield more power.
A legislature composed of only one house is described as unicameral.
Contents
1 Common attributes , 2 Titles of lower houses 2.1 Common names , 2.2 Unique Names , . , 3 See also , 4 Notes and references , . 
Common attributes [ edit ] 
In comparison with the upper house, lower houses frequently display certain characteristics:
Powers In a parliamentary system : Much more power, usually based on restrictions against the upper house., Able to override the upper house in some ways., Can vote a motion of no confidence against the government., . , In a presidential system: Little less power, as the upper house alone gives advice and consent to some executives decisions (e.g. appointments)., Given the sole power to impeach the executive (the upper house then tries the impeachment), . , . Status Always elected directly, while the upper house may be elected indirectly, or not elected at all., Its members may be elected with a different voting system to the upper house., Most populated administrative divisions are better represented than in the upper house; representation is usually proportional to population., Elected more frequently., Elected all at once, not by staggered terms., In a parliamentary system, can be dissolved by the executive., More members (except in the UK)., Has total or original control over budget and monetary laws., Lower age of candidacy than the upper house., . 
Titles of lower houses [ edit ] 
Common names [ edit ] 
DAil Aireann, Republic of Ireland 
Many lower houses are named in the following manner: House/Chamber of Representatives/the People/Commons/Deputies.
Chamber of Deputies, Chamber of Representatives, House of Assembly, House of Representatives, House of Commons, Legislative Assembly, National Assembly, . 
Unique Names [ edit ] 
Lok Sabha (India), DAil Aireann (Ireland), Dewan Rakyat (Malaysia), Mazhilis (Kazakhstan), House of Keys (Isle of Man), Sejm (Republic of Poland) (not to be confused with the Great Sejm), State Duma (Russia), . 
See also [ edit ] 
Representative democracy, List of national legislatures, Upper house, . 
Notes and references [ edit ] 
^ Bicameralism (1997) by George Tsebelis , v , t , e , . Lower houses of national legislatures , Lower houses 
Federal Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Canada, Ethiopia, Germany, India, Malaysia, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Russia, South Sudan, Sudan, Switzerland, United States, . , Unitary Afghanistan, Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Bhutan, Bolivia, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Chile, Colombia, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Czech Republic, Dominican Republic, Equatorial Guinea, France, Gabon, Grenada, Haiti, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Mauritania, Morocco, Namibia, Netherlands, Oman, Palau, Paraguay, Philippines, Poland, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Slovenia, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Swaziland, Tajikistan, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, United Kingdom, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Zimbabwe, . , Non-sovereign
states American Samoa, Bermuda, Isle of Man, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, . , Non-UN states Somaliland, . , Related Bicameralism, Unicameralism, List of legislatures by country, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Lower_house and oldid=621560866" Categories: Lower houses, National lower houses, Legislatures, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, Brezhoneg, CatalA, AeAtina, Dansk, Deutsch, EspaAol, Esperanto, UOOOU, FranAais, iei, OOOOOOO, Bahasa Indonesia, Italiano, Bahasa Melayu, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, PortuguAs, Simple English, Svenska, aaaaa, aaa, DDNDNDNNDD, Tiang Viat, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 17 August 2014 at 00:55.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
