
Politics of Macau - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of Macau 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, Politics and government of Macau Basic Law Government Chief Executive Fernando Chui Executive Council of Macau Principal Offices Sec. for Administration and Justice Sec. for Economy and Finance Sec. for Security Sec. for Social Affairs and Culture Sec. for Transport and Public Works Com. Against Corruption Dir. of Audit Pro-Gen. of Procuratorates Com. Gen. of the Police Services Com. of the Customs , Legislative Assembly President A Vice President Members of the AL Directly elected members Functional constituency members Nominated members Political parties , Court of Final Appeal , Elections , Foreign relations , Other Macau topics Culture , Demographics , Education , Economy , Geography , History , Politics , Government , Macau Portal , . , v , t , e , . , Politics of Macau takes place in a framework of a political system dominated by the People's Republic of China, an own legislature, the Chief Executive as the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
Contents
1 Macau as part of the People's Republic of China , 2 Head of Government , 3 Executive 3.1 Cabinet , 3.2 Principal officials , . , 4 Legislative branch , 5 Political parties and elections , 6 Judiciary , 7 Political pressure groups and leaders , 8 Foreign Affairs , 9 International organisation participation , 10 See also , 11 References , . 
Macau as part of the People's Republic of China [ edit ] 
In accordance with Article 31 of the Constitution of the People's Republic of China, Macau has Special Administrative Region status, which provides constitutional guarantees for implementing the policy of "one country, two systems" and the constitutional basis for enacting the Basic Law of the Macau Special Administrative Region. Although geographically part of Guangdong Province, the Macau Special Administrative Region is directly under the authority of the central government of the People's Republic of China in Beijing, which controls the foreign affairs and defence of Macau but otherwise grants the region "a high degree of authority." The Basic Law took force upon handover of sovereignty from Portugal on 20 December 1999, and is to remain in effect for fifty years (that is, until 2049).
Macau's seven deputies to the National People's Congress (NPC) are selected by an electoral conference; they attended their first session of the NPC in Beijing in March 2000. Previously, in December 1999, the NPC Standing Committee approved the membership of the NPC Committee for the Basic Law of the Macau Special Administrative Region, chaired by NPC Vice Chairman Qiao Xiaoyang, for a five-year term. Half of the ten members are from Macau, the others from mainland China. Macau also has representation on the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference.
The headquarters of Macau Government 
Head of Government [ edit ] 
Main article: Chief Executive of Macau 
Main office holders Office Name Party Since Chief of State (PRC President) , Xi Jinping , Communist Party of China , 14 March 2013 , Chief of Central Government (PRC Premier) , Li Keqiang , Communist Party of China , 15 March 2012 , Chief Executive, Fernando Chui Sai On, Non-partisan, 20 December 2009, The Chief Executive of Macau is appointed by the People's Republic of China's central government after selection by an election committee, whose members are nominated by corporate bodies. The chief executive appears before a cabinet, the Executive Council, of between 7 and 11 members. The term of office of the chief executive is 5 years, and no individual may serve for more than two consecutive terms. The governor has strong policymaking and executive powers similar to those of a president. These powers are, however, limited from above by the central government in Beijing, to whom the governor reports directly, and from below (to a more limited extent) by the legislature.
In May 1999, Edmund Ho, a community leader and banker, was the first PRC-appointed chief executive of the Macau SAR, having replaced General de Rocha Viera on 20 December 1999. He was elected by the 200-member Chief Executive Selection Committee. Ho, born in Macau in 1955, was the first Chinese person to govern the region since the 1550s. Prior to 20 December 1999, Ho nominated major officials in the new government and carried out other transfer tasks. Ho was re-elected for a second term in 2004 and was succeeded by Fernando Chui in 2009.
The executive branch of the Macau government has the following cabinet departments, each headed by a secretary: Administration and Justice, Economic and Financial Affairs, Security, Social Affairs and Culture, and Transport and Public Works. There also are two commissions, Against Corruption and Audit, and a chief public prosecutor. Upon Macau's reversion to China, the executive offices were moved from Macau Government House temporarily to the Banco Tai Fung.
The Legislative Assembly of Macau 
Executive [ edit ] 
Main article: Executive Council of Macau 
The Executive Council decides on matters of policy, the introduction of bills to the Legislative Assembly of Macau and the drafting of subordinate legislation. The Council consists of 11 members including the Chief Executive.
Cabinet [ edit ] 
The cabinet consists of 5 secretariats of departments lead by a Chief:
Chief of Cabinet (Macau), Secretariat for Transport and Public Works (Macau), Secretariat for Social Affairs and Culture (Macau), Secretariat for Security (Macau), Secretariat for Economy and Finance (Macau), Secretariat for Administration and Justice (Macau), . 
Principal officials [ edit ] 
Commissioner of the Macau Customs Service, Commissioner of the Unitary Police Service of Macau, Commissioner Against Corruption (Macau), Procurator General of Macau, . 
Legislative branch [ edit ] 
The legislative organ of the territory is the Legislative Assembly, a 29-member body comprising twelve directly elected members, ten indirectly elected members representing functional constituencies and seven members appointed by the chief executive. The Legislative Assembly is responsible for general lawmaking, including taxation, the passing of the budget and socioeconomic legislation. Terms are for four years, with annual sessions running from 15 October to 16 August. There are several standing committees in the assembly that perform the following functions: examination and issuance of reports and statements on projects and proposals of law, on resolutions and deliberations, and on proposals of alteration presented to the Legislative Assembly; examination of petitions submitted to the Legislative Assembly; voting on issues as approved in general by the Legislative Assembly General Meeting; and answering questions raised by the president or the General Meeting.
The last election was held in 2005 and the current Legislative Assembly is chaired by its president, industrialist Susana Chou (aeac), who is assisted by the vice president, lawyer Lau Cheok Va (ace).
Political parties and elections [ edit ] 
Main article: Macanese legislative election, 2009 For other political parties see List of political parties in Macau. An overview on elections and election results is included in Elections in Macau. 
ead Summary of the 20 September 2009 Legislative Assembly of Macau election results a Political affiliation
Popular votes
f Votes
Change in
f vote
Seats
Net change
in seats
4 , Prosperous Democratic Macau Association [ nb 1 ] 
AssociaAAo de PrAspero Macau DemocrAtico (aeaeaeaee) , 16, 424, 11.58, N/A , 2, +2, 2 , New Hope
Nova EsperanAa (aeaae) , 12, 908, 9.10, +1.11, 1, A0, 15 , New Democratic Macau Association [ nb 1 ] 
AssociaAAo de PrAspero Macau DemocrAtico (aeaeaeaee) , 11, 024, 7.77, -11.03, 1, -1, 6 , Civil Watch
ObservatArio CAvico (aaeca) , 5, 329, 3.76, N/A , 0, A0, 9 , Activism for Democracy Association
AssociaAAo de Activismo para a Democracia (aeaeea) , 1, 141, 0.80, N/A , 0, A0, 14 , Plural Voices a Peoples of Macau
Voz Plural - Gentes de Macau (eeaaee) , 905, 0.64, N/A , 0, A0, 11 , Democratic Society Alliance
AlianAa da Democracia de Sociedade (caeaeaeec) , 256, 0.18, N/A , 0, A0, Total for Pan-democracy camp , 47, 987 , 33.83 , +5.08 , 4 , +1 , 7 , United Citizens Association of Macau
AssociaAAo dos CidadAos Unidos de Macau (aeeaeeaeae) , 17, 014, 12.00, -4.58, 2, A0, 10 , New Union for Macauas Development
Nova UniAo para Desenvolvimento de Macau (aeecaaeec) , 14, 099, 9.94, +0.61, 1, A0, 1 , Macau-Guangdong Union
UniAo Macau-Guangdong (aecac) , 10, 348, 7.30, N/A , 1, +1, 5 , Alliance for Change
AlianAa Pr'a MudanAa (aeeaaeec) , 7, 857, 5.54, N/A , 1, +1, 3 , Union for the Progress and Development
UniAo Para o Progresso e Desenvolvimento (aaaeec) , 5, 389, 3.80, N/A , 0, A0, 12 , Union for Development
UniAo Para O Desenvolvimento (aaaeae) , 22, 098, 14.88, +1.59, 2, A0, 13 , Union for Promoting Progress
UniAo Promotora Para o Progresso (caaeeae) , 14, 044, 9.90, +0.30, 1, -1, 16 , Association for Helping the Community and Engagement with the People
AssociaAAo de Apoio A Comunidade e Proximidade do Povo (eaeaecaae) , 2, 334, 1.65, -0.71, 0, A0, 8 , "Social Justice" Team
Equipa de "JustiAa Social" (caeac) , 1, 627, 1.15, N/A , 0, A0, Total for Pan-establishment camp , 93, 810 , 66.16 , -5.10 , 8 , -1 , Total and Turnout 149, 006 59.91 +1.52 12 A0 Valid votes, 141, 797, 95.16, Invalid votes, 6, 498, 4.36, Blank votes, 711, 0.48, Eligible voters, 248, 708, Functional constituencies and appointed members a , Macau Business Interest Union
UniAo dos Interesses Empresariais de Macau 
(aeeaaeaceae) for business , 4, A0, a , Employees Association Joint Candidature Commission
ComissAo Conjunta da Candidatura das AssociaAAes de Empregados 
(aaaeea) for labor , 2, A0, a , Macau professional Interest Union
UniAo dos Interesses Profissionais de Macau 
(aeeaaeaceae) for professionals , 2, A0, a , Excellent Culture and Sports Union Association
AssociaAAo UniAo Cultural e Desportiva Excelente 
(aeaeaeaae) for welfare, culture, education and sport , 2, A0, a , Members appointed by the Chief Executive, 7, A0, Judiciary [ edit ] 
The Court of Final Appeal is the court of last resort in the Macau Special Administrative Region.
The legal system is based largely on Portuguese law. The territory has its own independent judicial system, with a high court. Judges are selected by a committee and appointed by the chief executive. Foreign judges may serve on the courts. In July 1999 the chief executive appointed a seven-person committee to select judges for the SAR. Twenty-four judges were recommended by the committee and were then appointed by Mr. Ho. Included are three judges who serve on the Macau SAR's highest court, the Court of Final Appeal (CFA): 39-year-old Sam Hou Fai (who will be chief justice), 32-year-old Chu Kin, and the 46-year-old Viriato Manuel Pinhiero de Lima.
Political pressure groups and leaders [ edit ] 
Roman Catholic Church (JosA Lai, bishop), Macau Society of Tourism and Entertainment or STDM (Stanley Ho, managing director), Union for Democracy Development (Antonio Ng Kuok cheong, leader), . 
Foreign Affairs [ edit ] 
The central government in Beijing controls the foreign affairs of Macau. The Commission of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs opened its office in Macau on 20 December 1999. A central government agency, the commission interacts with the Macau government in matters of foreign policy. It also processes applications from foreign nations and international organisations wishing to establish consulates or representative offices in Macau. Macau is also authorised to handle some external affairs on its own. These affairs include economic and cultural relations and agreements it concludes with states, regions, and international organisations. In such matters, Macau functions under the name "Macao, China." Macau displays the flag and national emblem of the People's Republic of China but is also authorised to display its own regional flag and emblem. Taiwanese organisations in Macau are allowed to continue operations and are required to abide by the Basic Law.
International organisation participation [ edit ] 
CCC, ESCAP (associate), International Maritime Organization (associate), Interpol (subbureau), UNESCO (associate), WMO, WToO (associate), WTrO
See also [ edit ] 
Politics of the People's Republic of China, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ a b These are the two electoral lists of New Macau Association , v , t , e , . Macautopics , History FernAo Pires de Andrade, Charles Elliot, Governor, Oldest buildings and structures, Anders Ljungstedt, Postal history, Military under Portuguese rule, Transfer of sovereignty, Fortaleza do Monte, . , Geography 
Birds, Cotai, Freguesia (civil parish) , Geocode, Hac Sa Beach, Ilha Verde, Municipalities, . , Politics 
Basic Law, Commission Against Corruption, Elections, Foreign relations, Gaming law, Legal system, Legislative Council, Military, Municipal Council, Municipality of the Islands, One country, two systems, Political parties (UGDM), Sino-Portuguese Joint Declaration, . , Government Administration and Justice, Economy and Finance, Security, Social Affairs and Culture, Transport and Public Works, . , Economy 
Closer Economic Partnership Arrangement (CEPA), Companies, Hengqin, Immigration, Monetary Authority, Pataca (currency) , Telecommunications, . , Tourism Canidrome, Gambling, Individual Visit Scheme, Macau Tower, . , Transport Air Airlines Air Macau, . , Airport, . , Ferry Pier, Mass transit system, Road Roads, Hong KongaZhuhaiaMacau Bridge, Reolian, Transmac, TCM, . , . , Culture 
Cuisine, Demographics, Education universities, . , Events and festivals, Films set in Macau, Honours system, Language, Literature JosA dos Santos Ferreira, . , Music Cantopop, Opera, . , Names of Macau, Religion, Science and Culture Centre, Scouting, Sport Grand Prix, Jockey Club, Rugby union, . , Women, . , Outline, Index, . Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Politics of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau , . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_Macau and oldid=622756001" Categories: Politics of Macau, . Hidden categories: Use British English from January 2012, Use dmy dates from January 2012, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, FranAais, Bahasa Melayu, aeaee, PortuguAs, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 25 August 2014 at 15:50.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
