
Russian martial arts - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Russian martial arts 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Russian martial arts , Types Russian boxing, Sambo, Systema, Retuinskih's System ROSS, . , v a d 
There are a number of martial arts styles and schools of Russian origin. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Traditional Russian fist fighting has existed since the 1st millennium A.D. It was outlawed in the Russian Empire in 1832, however it has seen a resurgence after the break-up of the Soviet Union.
During the Soviet era the government wanted to create both military hand-to-hand combat systems and combat sports, resulting in the creation of sambo. During the 1980s and after the fall of Communism the interest in the folk martial arts was reawakened. Through ethnographic study, many new styles based on the folk styles appeared.
Contents
1 Russian fist fighting , 2 Sambo , 3 Systema , 4 References , . 
Russian fist fighting [ edit ] 
Main article: Russian fist fighting 
Russian fist fighting (Russian - DNDDNDND DDD Kulachniy boy "fist fighting, pugilism) is the traditional bare-knuckle boxing of Russia. The earliest accounts concerning the sport date to the 13th century. [ 3 ] 
Sambo [ edit ] 
Main article: Sambo (martial art) 
Sambo (Russian: NDIDDD ; IPA: [EsambE] ; DDD DDDNDND D DD D NNDDN ) is a Russian martial art and combat sport. [ 4 ] [ 5 ] The word "SAMBO" is an acronym for SAM ozashchita B ez O ruzhiya , which literally translates as "self-defense without weapons". Sambo is relatively modern since its development began in the early 1920s by the Soviet Red Army to improve their hand-to-hand combat abilities. [ 4 ] Intended to be a merger of the most effective techniques of other martial arts, sambo has roots in Japanese judo, international styles of wrestling, plus traditional folk styles of wrestling such as: Armenian kokh, Georgian chidaoba, Romanian trAntC, Tatar kArAA, Uzbek kurash, Mongolian khapsagay and Azerbaijani gulesh.
The pioneers of sambo were Viktor Spiridonov and Vasili Oshchepkov. Oshchepkov died in prison as a result of the political purges of 1937 after accusations of being a Japanese spy. Oshchepkov spent much of his life living in Japan and training in judo under its founder Kano Jigoro. The two Russians independently developed two different styles which eventually cross-pollinated and became what is known as Sambo. Compared to Oshchepkov's judo-based system, then called "Freestyle Wrestling, " Spiridonov's style was softer and less strength dependent. This was in large part due to Spiridonov's injuries sustained during World War I. [ 6 ] 
Anatoly Kharlampiev, a student of Oshchepkov, is often considered the founder of sport sambo. In 1938, it was recognized as an official sport by the USSR All-Union Sports Committee.
Systema [ edit ] 
Main article: Systema 
Systema (DDNNDDD, literally meaning The System ) is a Russian martial art intended primarily for combat and self-defense. Training includes, but is not limited to, hand-to-hand combat, grappling, knife fighting, and firearms training.
References [ edit ] 
^ Russian martial art history , ^ "Russian Martial Arts". Completemartialarts.com . Retrieved 2014-05-23 . , ^ Russian Fist Fighting . "DDNDDDNNN DDND DDDDNNN DD DDD, DND D DDNDDD XIII D. [Our sources talked about it already at the 13th century.]" , ^ a b Schneiderman, R.M. (June 19, 2010). "Once-Secret Martial Art Rises in Ringas Bright Lights". the New York Times . , ^ "Once-secret KGB martial art fights for recognition". Time Live . Retrieved December 4, 2010 . , ^ DDDNDN DNDDDNNDDDN DDDNDDDDDD (Viktor Spiridonov) a biography at peoples.ru (in Russian) , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts , Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Russian_martial_arts and oldid=623853050" Categories: Russian culture, Russian martial arts, History of Russia, . Hidden categories: Articles containing Russian-language text, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
, . Edit links This page was last modified on 2 September 2014 at 12:38.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
