
Media of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Media of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Part of a series on the, Culture of Russia , History People Languages Traditions Mythology and folklore Mythology, Folklore, . , Cuisine Festivals Public holidays, . , Religion Art Architecture, . , Literature Music and performing arts Music, . , Media Television, Cinema, . , Sport Monuments World Heritage Sites, . , Symbols Flag, Coat of arms, Cultural icons, . , Russia portal, . , v , t , e , . , The media of Russia is diverse, with a wide range of broadcast and print outlets available to the consumer. [ 1 ] 
Contents
1 General information , 2 The press 2.1 Main newspapers , . , 3 Main online newspapers , 4 Television 4.1 Ownership structure , 4.2 Main television channels , . , 5 Radio , 6 News agencies , 7 Russian media agregators , 8 See also , 9 References , 10 External links , 11 Literature , . 
General information [ edit ] 
In total, there are 93, 000 media outlets in Russia, including 27, 000 newspapers and magazines and 330 television channels. [ 2 ] Television is the most popular source of information. There are three television channels with a nationwide outreach, and a multitude of regional channels. Local and national newspapers are the second most popular choice, while the Internet comes third. In all media spheres there is a mixture of private and state-ownership. The three nationwide television channels have been criticised for their alleged lack of neutrality, although independent media are widely available [ clarification needed ] . [ 1 ] 
a, Having marginalised print media, Putin turned his attention to Russian television. Broadcasters that once carried lively debates were turned into stultifying Kremlin instruments. As state-controlled TV stations began to spout increasingly convoluted theories to demonstrate their loyalty to Putin, Russian propaganda entered the realm of the absurd a so much so that Soviet propagandists would hide behind their Putinist counterparts. [ 3 ] , a, The organisation Reporters Without Borders compiles and publishes an annual ranking of countries based upon the organisation's assessment of their press freedom records. In 2013 Russia was ranked 148th out of 179 countries, six places below the previous year, mainly due to the return of Vladimir Putin. [ 4 ] Freedom House compiles a similar ranking and placed Russia at number 176 out of 197 countries for press freedom for 2013, putting it level with Sudan and Ethiopia. [ 5 ] The Committee to Protect Journalists states that Russia was the country with the 10th largest number of journalists killed since 1992, 26 of them since the beginning of 2000, including four from Novaya Gazeta. [ 6 ] It also placed Russia at number 9 in the world for numbers of journalists killed with complete impunity. [ 7 ] 
Although modern Russian journalism has transformed from being a state job (Soviet era) to a market freelance position (post-Soviet era), it is mostly unchanged in its political subordination. This paradox of market freedom and political non-freedom is a consequence of aguided democracya or asimulation democracya in which, as Dmitry Furman (2010) explains, ademocratic institutions and rules of law play a role of (fake) veneer, camouflage to hide the authoritarian system. [ 8 ] 
The press [ edit ] 
Russia has over 400 daily newspapers, covering many fields, and offering a range of perspectives. [ 9 ] The total number of newspapers in Russia is 8, 978, and they have a total annual circulation of 8.2 billion copies. There are also 6, 698 magazines and periodicals with a total annual circulation of 1.6 billion copies. [ 10 ] Russia has the largest number of newspaper journalists in the world (102, 300), followed by China (82, 849) and the United States (54, 134), according to statistics published by UNESCO in 2005. [ 11 ] 
Newspapers are the second most popular media in Russia, after television. Local newspapers are more popular than national ones, with 27f Russians consulting local newspapers routinely and 40eading them occasionally. For national newspapers, the corresponding figures are 18nd 38respectively. [ 12 ] 
According to figures from the National Circulation Service agency, the most popular newspaper is Argumenty i Fakty which has a circulation of 2.9 million. It is followed by Weekly Life (1.9 million), TV Guide (1.2 million) and Perm Region Izvestiya (1 million). [ 13 ] However, only about half of all Russian newspapers are registered with the agency. [ 9 ] Some of the leading newspapers in Russia are tabloids, including Zhizn. The most important business newspapers are Vedomosti and the influential Kommersant. Many newspapers are opposition-leaning, such as the critical Nezavisimaya Gazeta and Novaya Gazeta, which is known for its investigative journalism. [ 9 ] [ 14 ] The main English-language newspapers are Moscow Times and The St. Petersburg Times. 6 of the 10 most circulated Russian newspapers are based in Moscow, while the other 4 are based in other cities and regions. [ 13 ] 
Main newspapers [ edit ] 
Rossiyskaya Gazeta a government-owned daily, Izvestia a popular daily, Komsomolskaya Pravda a mass circulation, left-leaning daily, Trud a left-leaning daily, Argumenty i Fakty a popular weekly, Moskovskiye Novosti a daily. Owned by Rossiya Segodnya through the RIA Novosti news agency. [ 15 ] , Kommersant a daily, news and business-orientated, Moskovskij Komsomolets a popular daily, Nezavisimaya Gazeta a pro-opposition privately owned daily, Novaya Gazeta a daily, known for its investigative journalism, Vedomosti a daily financial and analytical newspaper, RBC Daily a daily financial and analytical newspaper, Sport Express a daily sport newspaper, Sovetsky Sport a daily sport newspaper, The New Times a weekly independent newspaper, Vokrug sveta a monthly popular science magazine, Za Rulem - monthly car magazine, Autoreview - bimonthly car magazine, Expert - weekly business magazine, Russian reporter - weekly sociopolitical magazine, Afisha - bimontly magazine on urban developments in the field of entertainment, Znanie-Sila - monthly popular science magazine, Ogonyok - socio-political and literary illustrated weekly magazine, Tekhnika Molodezhi - monthly popular science and literary magazine, Literaturnaya Gazeta - weekly literary and sociopolitic, Zhizn - weekly tabloid, Sport Express - sport daily, Sovetsky Sport - sport daily (except sunday), . 
Main online newspapers [ edit ] 
Gazeta.ru - politics and business online newspaper, Lenta.ru , LifeNews - tabloid, Slon.ru - business online newspaper, Grani.ru - opposition online newspaper, Vesti.ru - state-owned online newspaper, Sdelanounas.ru - independent project for the publication of information about innovation and opening new production facilities in Russia, . 
Television [ edit ] 
See also: Television in Russia and Digital television in Russia 
Television is the most popular media in Russia, with 74f the population watching national television channels routinely and 59outinely watching regional channels. [ 12 ] There are 330 television channels in total. [ 2 ] 3 channels have a nationwide outreach (over 90overage of the Russian territory): First Channel, Rossiya and NTV. [ 16 ] According to 2005 television ratings, the most popular channel was First Channel (22.9 followed by Rossiya (22.6 The survey responders' local TV company was third with a rating of 12.3sup id="cite_ref-Oates_p.120_17-0" class="reference"> [ 17 ] The three national TV channels provide both news and entertainment, while the most popular entertainment-only channels are STS (10.3ating) and TNT (6.7 The most popular sports channel is Russia 2 (formerly Sport ; rating 1.8 [ 17 ] while the most popular culture channel is Russia K (formerly Kultura ; rating 2.5 [ 18 ] Russia K and Russia 2 have the third and fourth largest coverage of all Russian TV channels, with Russia K reaching 78.9f the urban and 36.2f the rural population and Russia 2 reaching 51.5nd 15.6respectively. [ 16 ] 
Regional television is relatively popular in Russia, and according to a 2005 report by TNS, regional audiences rely mainly on news and analysis provided by regional channels. [ 17 ] 
Ownership structure [ edit ] 
Two of the three main channels are majority owned by the state. First Channel is 51ublicly owned, while Rossiya is 100tate-owned through the All-Russia State Television and Radio Broadcasting Company (VGTRK). NTV is a commercial channel, but it is owned by Gazprom-Media, a subsidiary of Gazprom of which the state owns 50.002These three channels have often came under criticism for being biased towards the United Russia party and the Presidential Administration of Russia. They are accused of providing disproportionate and uncritical coverage of United Russia and their candidates. The channels do, however, provide large amounts of free airtime to all opposition election candidates, as required by law. During the Russian presidential election, 2008, the four presidential candidates all received 21 hours of airtime on the three main channels to debate each other and present their views. [ 19 ] According to research conducted by Professor Sarah Oates, most Russians believe that news reporting on the three national television channels is selective and unbalanced, but view this as approriate. The responders to the study made it clear that they believe the role of state television should be to provide central authority and order in troubled times. [ 20 ] 
Main television channels [ edit ] 
First Channel a national, state-owned channel a news and entertainment, Rossiya 1 a national, state-owned channel a news and entertainment, Zvezda a national, owned by Russian Ministry of Defense, NTV a national 50tate-owned a news and entertainment, Russia K a state-owned a culture and arts, Russia 2 a state-owned, commercial, Russia 24 a state-owned a news channel, Petersburg a Channel 5 a state-owned a commercial, TV Center a owned by Moscow city government a news and entertainment, STS a commercial a entertainment, Domashny a commercial, entertainment, TNT a state-owned, commercial, Ren TV a Moscow-based commercial station with strong regional network, Russia Today a state-funded, international English-language news channel, Dozhd a private independent news channel, ProRussia.tv a state-owned, in French, . 
Radio [ edit ] 
Main article: Radio in Russia 
There are three main nationwide radio stations in Russia: Radio Russia (coverage: 96.9f the population), Radio Mayak (92.4and Radio Yunost (51.0 [ 21 ] Most radio stations focused on broadcasting music but they also offered some news and analysis. Especially famous had been the independent Gazprom-controlled station Echo of Moscow, once known for its political independence. [ 22 ] 
Radio Russia a national network, Radio Mayak a state-run national network, Radio Yunost a youth station, Echo of Moscow a news and analysis. On 18 February 2014, a shareholders' meeting replaced the station's long-serving director, Yury Fedutinov, with former the Voice of Russia's Yekaterina Pavlova, a Kremlin-loyalist in 'the latest in a series of personnel reshuffles at top state-owned media organizations that appear to point toward a tightening of Kremlin control over an already heavily regulated media landscape' the state owned RIA Novosti news agency reported the same day. [ 23 ] The station's editor-in-chief, Alexei Venediktov, and his deputy, Vladimir Varfolomeev, were also removed from the broadcaster's board of directors. Venediktov, one of the station's founders, had written on March 11 on his Twitter account: 'Gazprommedia (owner of 66f the broadcasteras shares) urged the early dismissal of the radioas board of directors and a change in independent directors'. [ 24 ] , Europa Plus a private national network, Russkoye Radio a private national network, AvtoRadio a state-owned/private national network, Nashe Radio a rock music, Radio Record a club/dance radio network, Voice of Russia a ( Golos Rossii ) a state-run external service, broadcasting in English and other languages. (Like the RIA Novosti news agency, the broadcaster was merged into a new media agency Rossiya Segodnya, officially "to save money", under a 9 December 2013 presidential decree.) [ 25 ] , . 
News agencies [ edit ] 
, This section is empty. You can help by adding to it. (September 2014) , Rossiya segodnya, Russian News Agency "TASS", Interfax, REGNUM News Agency, Rosbalt, . 
Russian media agregators [ edit ] 
Integrum a private, . 
See also [ edit ] 
Telecommunications in Russia, Freedom of the press in Russia, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ a b The Problem with Russiaas Free Press Today Is on the Side of Demand Russia Profile , ^ a b Amendments to the Media Law May Complicate Foreign Broadcasting in Russia Russia Profile , ^ Cichowlas, Ola (2014-05-07). "The internet was the last free zone in Russian society. Now Putin has it in his grasp". The Independent . Retrieved 2014-10-18 . , ^ "A Press Freedom Index 2011 a 2012". Reporters Without Borders . Retrieved 21 Apr 2014 . , ^ "Freedom of the Press 2013". Freedom House . Retrieved 14 June 2014 . , ^ "56 Journalists Killed in Russia since 1992/Motive Confirmed". Committee to Protect Journalists . Retrieved 14 June 2014 . , ^ "Getting Away With Murder". Committee for the Protection of Journalists . Retrieved 14 June 2014 . , ^ Pasti, Svetlana; Mikhail Chernysh and Luiza Svitich (2012). "Russian journalists and their profession". In Weaver, David H.; Willnat, Lars. The Global Journalist in the 21st Century . New York: Routledge. p.267. ISBN978-0-415-88576-8 . Retrieved 2014-10-18 . Cite uses deprecated parameters (help) , ^ a b c BBC: The press in Russia (16 May 2008) , ^ "10.5. Publication of books, booklets, magazines and newspapers". Federal State Statistics Service. 2010. , ^ Treisman, p.358 , ^ a b Oates, p.128 , ^ a b Oates pp.121a122 , ^ Oates p.118-134 , ^ About the publication Imprint, (Russian in Cyrillic characters), Moskovskiye Novosti, Moscow.Accessed 26 April 2014. , ^ a b "19.8 Coverage by TV broadcasting". Federal Statistics Service. 2008. , ^ a b c Oates p.120 , ^ Oates, p.120 , ^ Treisman, p.350 , ^ Oates, p.129 , ^ "19.7 Coverage by radio broadcasting in 2008". Federal Statistics Service. 2008. , ^ Oates, p.119 , ^ Veteran Director of Liberal Russian Radio Station Ousted , RIA Novosti, Moscow, 14 February 2014.Accessed 26 April 2014. , ^ Russian Liberal Radio Station Faces Reshuffles Ahead of Polls , RIA Novosti, Moscow, 14 February 2014.Accessed 26 April 2014. , ^ RIA Novosti to Be Liquidated in State-Owned Media Overhaul , RIA Novosti, Moscow, 9 December 2013.Accessed 26 April 2014. , External links [ edit ] 
Russian Media Index SMI20, a monthly quantitative review of the Russian media coverage., A guide to the troubled world of independent Russian media, The Calvert Journal, April 2014, . 
Literature [ edit ] 
Oates, Sarah; McCormack, Gillian (2010). "The Media and Political Communication". In White, Stephen. Developments in Russian Politics 7 . Duke University Press. ISBN978-0-230-22449-0. , Treisman, Daniel (2011). The Return: Russia's Journey from Gorbachev to Medvedev . Free Press. ISBN978-1-4165-6071-5. , . 
v , t , e , . Media of Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media , Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Media_of_Russia and oldid=631630315" Categories: Russian media, . Hidden categories: Pages containing cite templates with deprecated parameters, Wikipedia articles needing clarification from October 2014, Articles to be expanded from September 2014, All articles to be expanded, Articles with empty sections from September 2014, All articles with empty sections, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, Deutsch, Eesti, FranAais, Polski, DNNNDDD, Tiang Viat, . Edit links This page was last modified on 29 October 2014 at 16:38.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
