
Mikhail Prokhorov - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Mikhail Prokhorov 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Mikhail Prokhorov , Born Mikhail Dmitrievitch Prokhorov 
( 1965-05-03 ) 3 May 1965 (age49) 
Moscow, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union , Residence Moscow, Russia, Citizenship Russia, Almamater Moscow Finance Institute, Occupation Businessman-Politician, Knownfor owner of the ONEXIM Group, Networth US$10.9 billion (March 2014) [ 1 ] , Height 6ft 8in (2.03m) [ 2 ] , Political party Communist Party of the Soviet Union
(1988a1991)
Right Cause
(JuneaSeptember 2011)
Civic Platform (2012-present), Religion None (Atheist) [ 3 ] , Spouse(s) Bachelor , Signature , Mikhail Prokhorov's voice Sorry, your browser either has JavaScript disabled or does not have any supported player.
You can download the clip or download a player to play the clip in your browser. recorded September 2013 
, Problems playing this file? See media help. , Mikhail Dmitrievitch Prokhorov (Russian: DDNDDID DDDINNDDDDN DNDINDNDD; born 3 May 1965) is a Russian billionaire, politician, and owner of the American basketball team the Brooklyn Nets. After graduating from the Moscow Finance Institute, he worked in the financial sector and subsequently went on to become one of Russia's leading industrialists, owning major stakes in multinational corporations in the precious metals sector. While he was running Norilsk Nickel, the company became the world's largest producer of nickel and palladium. He is the former chairman of Polyus Gold, Russia's largest gold producer, and the former President of ONEXIM Group. He resigned both positions to enter politics in June 2011.
In December 2011, Prokhorov capped a year of higher-profile political activity in Russia with the December declaration that he would run as an independent candidate in the 2012 Russian presidential election. He was third in the voting, amassing 7.94f the total vote. [ 4 ] In June 2012 he declared the establishment of the new Russian political party called the aParty of Civic Platforma. As of 2014, Forbes estimates his wealth at $10.9 billion. [ 5 ] 
Contents
1 Early life , 2 Business career 2.1 Norilsk Nickel , 2.2 ONEXIM Group , . , 3 Sports and patronage , 4 Controversies , 5 Awards , 6 Russian politics , 7 Campaign promises and views , 8 See also , 9 References , 10 External links , . 
Early life [ edit ] 
Prokhorov was born in Moscow to Tamara and Dmitri Prokhorov. He has one sibling, an elder sister, Irina. His maternal grandmother, Anna Belkina, was a prominent Jewish [ 6 ] [ 7 ] microbiologist who remained in Moscow during World War II to make vaccines while her daughter Tamara was moved east to safety. [ 7 ] His paternal grandparents were relatively wealthy peasant farmers (known as kulaks) who were persecuted as class enemies under the Bolsheviks and again under Stalin. [ 7 ] His father, one of eight children, grew up poor, after his family "lost everything and was forced to flee from one part of Siberia and restart life in another". [ 7 ] 
Dmitri Prokhorov was trained as a lawyer and handled international relations for the Soviet Committee of Physical Culture and Sport. Tamara Prokhorova was a materials engineer at the Institute for Chemical Machine-Building. [ 8 ] As part of his job, Dmitri Prokhorov had the opportunity to travel abroad. His wife worked as an engineer for a research group at the institute specializing in plastics. They died within a year of each other, both from heart disease when they were in their late 50s. [ 7 ] Prokhorov remained in their flat, which he shared with his divorced sister and her daughter. He has never married and his sister, who "runs his philanthropic organizations, an erudite literary magazine, and a publishing house...lives in a wing of his mansion west of Moscow". [ 8 ] 
In 1989, Prokhorov graduated from the Moscow Finance Institute. From 1989a92, he worked in a management position at the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. Thereafter he shortly served as head of Management Board of the MFK bank (International Finance Company) [ citation needed ] and then the United Export-Import Bank (Uneximbank; akas: Onexim Bank; Oneksimbank), with Alexander Khloponin, a friend from college, and Vladimir Potanin, to whom he was introduced by Khloponin and who became his business partner. [ 8 ] 
Business career [ edit ] 
In 1992, at the age of 27, Prokhorov partnered with Potanin to run Interros, a holding company that they used in 1995 to effect the purchase of Norilsk Nickel, one of Russia's largest nickel and palladium mining and smelting companies. [ 9 ] During the largely un-regulated privatization of former state-controlled industries after the collapse of the USSR, Prokhorov and Potanin (the latter by then a deputy prime minister who oversaw privatization) were able acquire the shares from the workers of Norilsk Nickel for a fraction of their estimated market value and seize ownership of the company. When he departed in 2007, Prokhorov's share of the company was worth US $7.5 billion. [ 10 ] 
Prokhorov first major financial success came at MFK, which became a depository institution for the government. The bank acquired Soviet assets in the amount of US$300 to US$400million. Prokhorov held the post of Chairman of the Board from 1992 until 1993. In 1993, Prokhorov became the Chairman of the Board for Potanin's Onexim Bank, which, in 1993, became the paying agent for Finance Ministry bonds and a servicing bank for the City of Moscow's external economic activities. In 1994, Onexim became the depository and paying agent for Russian Treasury obligations, and in 1995, it became the authorized bank for the federal agency dealing with bankrupt enterprises. [ 11 ] 
Banks holding government funds earned handsome fees and paid minimal interest at a time when inflation was in the triple digits. [ 12 ] 
In the 1990s, the Russian government needed loans to operate. Prokhorov partnered with Potanin. Their Onexim bank ran auctions for the government, in which bidders won the right to loan the Russian government money. Onexim and its affiliates were the winning bidders at the Norlisk Nickel and other auctions they conducted. The Russian government secured the loans with blocks of shares of the newly privatized state enterprises. The government never repaid the loans, and, as a result, Onexim received ownership of the collateral, which was the shares in the privatized enterprises. [ 12 ] 
When cash privatization eventually replaced the failing voucher privatization phase, the government came up with a scheme to leverage the privatization process and quickly raise money for its cash-strapped operations. Under the "loans for shares" program, the administration sold off majority stakes in some of its prized companies in the energy, telecommunications, and metallurgical sectors in exchange for loans taken from the new private sector banks owned by rich businessmen. According to the terms of the loan, the lender could stake equity ownership in the company if the government failed to repay the loans by September 1996. Auctions conducted under the "loans for shares" program were executed in such a way that only the few businessmen who owned these banks were allowed to partake in auctions. Following these bogus auctions, the majority stakes in some of the biggest Russian companies were acquired by a small number of major banks at abysmally low prices. These businessmen also bankrolled Yeltsin's 1996 presidential election victory, exerting their influence over the then president. [ 13 ] 
Onexim purchased SIDANKO, which was a part of the Novolipetsk metallurgical industrial complex, and also the Novorossiisk marine shipping company and a large share of the Northwest marine shipping company. All of these enterprises were purchased by Prokhorov and Potanin for approximately one third of their estimated market value. [ clarification needed ] [ citation needed ] 
In April 1996, Prokhorov was appointed to the Board of Directors of Norilsk Nickel (which then still belonged to the state). In November 1995, Onexim Bank won 38 percent of Norilsk Nickel in a loans-for-shares auction for US$170.1million, a mere US$100, 000 or less than a fraction of a fraction of 1igher than the bid starting price. At the time, Norilsk produced 25f the world's nickel output. [ 14 ] 
Onexim managed the Norilsk Nickel auction, with a reservation price of US$170million. It arranged three bids from affiliates, all at US$170 or US$170.1million. Rossiiski Kredit Bank offered US$355million, more than twice the starting amount. However, Onexim disqualified Rossiiski Kredit's bid on the basis that the bid amount exceeded Rossiiski Kredit's charter capital (the nominal value of its outstanding shares). Ironically, when Onexim allows its own affiliate to win the bidding at US$170.1million, that amount also exceeded the affiliate's charter capital. The auction rules required Onexim to provide any objections in advance of the auction, to give bidders time to cure them. None of the submitted bids even closely approximated the market value of Norilsk Nickel, which had annual profits of around US$400million. [ 15 ] 
60 Minutes , the American news program, interviewed Prokhorov. The program alleged that
Kremlin leaders gave him what amounts to an insiders opportunity to buy one of the state's most valuable assets. It was acquired from the Kremlin in a so-called auction for the measly sum of a few hundred million dollars in a process that even Prokhorov's business partner admits wasn't perfect, and probably not even legal under Western standards. But it was legal in Russia".
During the interview, Russian business correspondent Julia Latnina stated about the auction of Norlisk Nickel, "Yes, it was rigged. But, it cannot be explained in normal economic terms to an outsider, especially an American. You had robber barons, we have oligarchs." [ 16 ] 
In December 2011, Prokhorov capped a year of higher-profile political activity in Russia with the December declaration that he would run as an independent in the 2012 presidential elections. He took third place in these elections with 7.94f the vote. [ 4 ] In June 2012 he declared the establishment of a new political party called the aParty of Civic Platforma. He resigned his positions as Chairman of Polyus Gold and President of the ONEXIM Group to enter politics in June 2011.
Norilsk Nickel [ edit ] 
Mikhail Prokhorov (right-center, wearing red tie) Mikhail Prokhorov (center) 
After selling off most of Norilsk's non-mining assets, Prokhorov moved to modernize a highly complex mining operation which required icebreakers to transport metal over the frozen Arctic region. Prokhorov invested in an innovative Finnish freighter that did not require icebreakers. Norilsk Nickel is headquartered in Moscow. Environmental and labor conditions are harsh, and pollution remains a problem; Prokhorov has invested heavily in pollution control. However, despite these efforts, the mining areas continue to suffer from a high level of pollution. [ 17 ] He converted Norilsk's gold-mining interests into the US$8.5billion corporation Polyus Gold, Russia's largest gold producer. In 2003, he oversaw the acquisition of Stillwater Mining, his first international venture. He resigned as Norilsk CEO in February 2007 and declared his intention to separate his assets from those of long-time partner Vladimir Potanin. The two engaged in protracted negotiations to separate the conglomerate Interros, which the duo co-owned since the 1990s, into separate holdings. [ 18 ] 
ONEXIM Group [ edit ] 
In May 2007, following the decision to exit Interros, Prokhorov launched the private investment fund ONEXIM Group, with assets valued at US$17billion at the time. As the separation from Interros proceeded, and as other industries caught Prokhorov's attention, the group rapidly changed its investment profile. In April 2008, Prokhorov sold his 25lus two shares stake in Norilsk Nickel to United Company RUSAL, another mining conglomerate controlled by his fellow billionaire Oleg Deripaska, in exchange for some 14f Rusal stock, about US$5billion in cash, and additional payment obligations of US$2billion. The deal has been singled out as a major success for Prokhorov as only three months later, following a dip in oil prices, a disastrous stock market crash halved the value of most Russian companies, including Norilsk. He emerged as one of the very few businessmen to have cashed out in time. However, his wealth has also been affected, as the value of his remaining interests in various companies (including Rusal and Open Investments) declined sharply, and as the remaining payment from Rusal had to be postponed but has since been fully paid. [ citation needed ] 
In September 2008, ONEXIM Group acquired 50f Renaissance Capital, [ 19 ] a major Russian investment bank which has reportedly encountered liquidity problems. ONEXIM purchased a small bank, renaming it IFC (for the bank which Prokhorov had run in the early 1990s). One of ONEXIM Group's divisions focuses on the development of nanotechnology investing in high-technology projects such as white LEDs. One of the key areas of development is the production of materials with ultraatiny structures used in energy generation and medicine. As part of that focus, ONEXIM purchased Optogan in 2008. [ citation needed ] 
In June 2007, the Russian Prime Minister, Mikhail Fradkov, announced the formation of the Government Council for Nanotechnology, to oversee the development of nanotechnology in the country. Prokhorov was one of 15 individuals appointed to the council, which was to be chaired by then-First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov. [ 20 ] 
In July 2009, the shareholders of RBC Information Systems agreed with Prokhorov's ONEXIM Group to sell an additional 51take for US$80million, half of which went to pay off debts. The deal was closed in 2010. Prokhorov has business interests in mining and metallurgy (Polyus Gold, Intergeo, stake in Rusal), financial services (IFC-Bank, Soglassye insurance company, half of Renaissance Capital), utilities (stake in Quadra), nanotech, media (JV!) and real estate development (Open Investments). [ citation needed ] 
Sports and patronage [ edit ] 
In March 2004, Prokhorov founded the Cultural Initiatives Foundation (as part of the Mikhail Prokhorov Foundation). It is headed by Prokhorovas elder sister, Irina, a prominent Russian publisher. At one time, he financially supported CSKA Moscow's basketball, hockey and football clubs, and is a member of the Supreme Council of the Sport Russia organization. He serves as president of the Russian Biathlon Union. He is also an avid freeride/freestyle jet skier. He performs tricks on a stand up jet ski. In the 60 Minutes interview he stated that a backflip is his most impressive trick. [ 16 ] 
In September 2009, he made an offer to buy a controlling interest in the New Jersey Nets of the National Basketball Association and half of a project to build a new arena in Brooklyn. [ 21 ] [ 22 ] On 11 May 2010, the NBA approved the sale of the Nets to Prokhorov, making him the majority owner of the team with an 80take. He also acquired a 45nterest in the new Barclays Center sports and entertainment arena. [ 23 ] [ 24 ] 
He became the first non-North American team owner in the NBA and also the tallest, standing at 6a8a. [ 21 ] In December 2011, after announcing his run for the Russian presidency, the NBA confirmed that Prokhorov's ownership interest would not need to be altered in the event of his election (Herb Kohl, a then sitting but since retired U.S. Senator, owns the Milwaukee Bucks). [ 25 ] On 30 April 2012, the Nets officially made the move to Brooklyn, rebranding themselves as the Brooklyn Nets. [ citation needed ] 
Controversies [ edit ] 
At a Christmas party for the Russian nouveau riche at the French Alpine resort of Courchevel in January 2007, he was arrested on suspicion of arranging prostitutes for his guests. [ 21 ] [ 26 ] After three days, he was released without charge. [ 27 ] In September 2009, Prokhorov was officially cleared from this charge and the court case was dismissed. [ 28 ] According to the French prosecutor, he had paid all expenses for the single women to travel to France, but they were not professional prostitutes or working for a prostitution agency. [ 29 ] According to his blog, he made an apology for his actions during a visit to France in 2009. [ 30 ] 
In parallel, resolved another important question for me. I have apologized for the well-known event in January 2007. So in this case is over.
Prokhorov made headlines in early March 2010 when he was forced to forfeit a A36 million deposit he had placed on the A360 million Villa Leopolda in the French Riviera in 2008. Under French property law, once an initial sale contract has been signed, a deposit can be refunded only during a seven-day cooling-off period. On 2 March 2010, a court at Nice in France ruled that the villa's owner, 71-year-old Lily Safra, could keep the A36 million deposit, plus A1 million in interest. [ 31 ] 
Regarding Prokhorov's political efforts and the Right Cause party, critical commentators claim that the entire endeavor is just a project of the Kremlin closely curated by Vladislav Surkov and that Prokorov was effectively appointed to be the party leader rather than being chosen by independently minded party members. [ 32 ] [ 33 ] According to them, the "puppet party" was designed to divert opposition voters by using liberal rhetoric.
Awards [ edit ] 
In August 2006, he was awarded the Order of Friendship for his significant contribution to the growth of Russia's economic potential, when the President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, signed an order for the granting of state honors on 18 August 2006. In March 2011, he was bestowed with the French Legion of Honour. France's ambassador to Moscow, Jean de Gliniasty, presented it at the French embassy in Moscow. [ 34 ] 
Russian politics [ edit ] 
In May 2011, Prokhorov announced a plan to join the leadership of the Russian pro-business political party Right Cause. [ 21 ] While not antagonistic to the Kremlin, the party was seen as likely to support President Dmitry Medvedev rather than Prime Minister Vladimir Putin if the latter entered the 2012 presidential race. In June of that year, Prokhorov was elected to the leadership of the party at the Right Cause Party Congress of 2011. At the acceptance ceremony, Prokhorov officially criticized the present ruling tandem of Medvedev-Putin, the structure of Russia, and vowed to bring Russia back to a stable development course. [ 35 ] However, in September 2011, Prokhorov reversed course and resigned from Right Cause, "condemning it as a 'puppet Kremlin party' micromanaged by a 'puppet master' in the president's office ... Vladislav Y. Surkov". [ 36 ] 
In December 2011, after the legislative elections, Prokhorov announced that he would contest the 2012 presidential election against Vladimir Putin as an independent. [ 37 ] He called it at the time "probably [ 38 ] the most important decision of my life". [ 37 ] Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov and opposition leader Boris Nemtsov both saw the move as an attempt "to preserve Putin's regime". [ 39 ] In the 4 March 2012 presidential polling, Prokhorov gained 7.94f the vote. [ 4 ] [ 40 ] According to a poll by VTSIOM his candidacy was known by only 8f the Russian electorate. [ 4 ] In June 2012 he became the leader of the Civic Platform Party. [ 41 ] 
Campaign promises and views [ edit ] 
While running for president in 2012, he made a number of promises if he was to be elected. For domestic policy, Prokhorov promised to build more roads, railroad tracks, and increase the Russian standard of living to the point of it being higher than in the United States. [ 42 ] 
For foreign policy, he viewed that Russia should create a closer partnership for trade with the European Union and close it with the Central Asian zone. Threat countries in his opinion are the "non-democratic" or human rights abusing regimes, in which he named Iran and Syria as the primary ones. [ 43 ] 
See also [ edit ] 
List of billionaires, List of Russian billionaires, D-mobile, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ Forbes: The World's Billionaires: "Mikhail Prokhorov" March 2013 , ^ "Mikhail Prokhorov's Childhood Nickname Was Giraffe!" , ^ [1] , ^ a b c d Prokhorov still considered oligarch, not politician, Russia Today (23 March 2012) , ^ "The World's Billionaires> Russia". Forbes . n.d . Retrieved 26 April 2012 . +Russia and rft.date=n.d. and rft.genre=article and rft_id=http://www.forbes.com/profile/mikhail-prokhorov and rft.jtitle=Forbes and rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal" class="Z3988"> , ^ "Mikhail Prokhorov: The Oligarch Presidential Candidate". RussianMind . Retrieved 28 September 2013 . , ^ a b c d e Brown, Chip (28 October 2010). "The N.B.A.'s Oligarch and His Power Games". The New York Times Magazine . Retrieved 12 December 2011 . , ^ a b c Ioffe, Julia, "The Master and Mikhail: Are Putin and Prokhorov running for President against or with each other?", 27 February 2012. Retrieved 12 March 2012. , ^ Interros History , ^ Potanin to Split Interros Assets , ^ "Famous Russians: Mikhail Prokhorov". Russapedia. , ^ a b Black, Bernard et al. "Russian Privatization and Corporate Governance: What Went Wrong". Stanford Law Review . Retrieved 16 February 2012 . , ^ "Oligarchs: The First Russian Capitalists". Thomas White. , ^ "Mikhail Prokhorov". The Moscow Times. , ^ Black, Bernard, et al. "Russian Privatization and Corporate Governance: What Went Wrong". Stanford Law Review . Retrieved 16 February 2012 . , p. 15; further reference to Ira W. Lieberman and Rogi Veimetra, "The Rush for State Shares in the 'Klondyke' of Wild East Capitalism: The Loans-for-Shares Transactions in Russia", George Washington Journal of International Law and Economics 29: 737-768 (1996). , ^ a b "Prokhorov:The Russian is Coming". CBS News 60 Minutes. 28 March 2010 . Retrieved 5 March 2012 . "See alternative url: http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2010/03/25/60minutes/main6333015.shtml" , ^ "Top 10 Most Polluted Places" . Retrieved 16 February 2012 . , ^ "Prokhorov, Potanin to split Interros assets", St-Petersburg Times , 2 February 2007 , ^ "Prokhorov Acquires Half of RenCap" , ^ BBC News (13 December 2011). "Profile: Mikhail Prokhorov, Russian billionaire". BBC News. , ^ a b c d Debevoise, Pola (5 March 2014). "M: Billionaires Don't Do Guilt, A Post-Davos Conversation". WWD . Retrieved 6 March 2014 . , ^ Bagli, Charles V. (23 September 2009). "Richest Russian's Newest Toy: An N.B.A. Team". New York Times . "A Russian tycoon with a longstanding passion for basketball agreed to a $200million deal on Wednesday that would make him the principal owner of the New Jersey Nets and a key investor in the teamas proposed new home in Brooklyn." , ^ NBA Board of Governors approves sale of Nets to Prokhorov , ^ "Prokhorov gets control of Nets", ESPN with Associated Press, updated 12 May 2010. , ^ Mamudi, Sam, "NBA says Prokhorov can run Russia and Nets", MarketWatch , 12 December 2011; retrieved 12 December 2011. , ^ Bryanski, Gleb (12 January 2007). "French spoil party for Russia's super-rich ski set". Washington Post . Retrieved 29 March 2010 . "French police held Mikhail Prokhorov, co-owner of the world's biggest nickel producer with an estimated fortune of US$7.6billion, after he was detained with a group of young women in an upmarket Courchevel hotel on Tuesday." , ^ Russen im Wintersport: Der lustfeindliche Westen, SAddeutsche Zeitung, 23 January 2007 , ^ "France drops prostitution case against Russia's richest man", Sydney Morning Herald , 29 September 2009 , ^ Bremner, Charles. "Russian playboy 'flew in callgirls ' ". theaustralian.com.au . , ^ Blog , ^ Sparks, Ian (3 March 2010). "Russian billionaire loses A36m deposit he put down on the world's most expensive home... plus another A1m interest". Daily Mail (London) . Retrieved 29 March 2010 . , ^ Schwirtz, Michael (16 May 2011). "Mikhail D. Prokhorov to Lead a Russian Political Party". The New York Times . , ^ http://www.rosbalt.ru/main/2011/08/18/880855.html , ^ Russian Capitalist Wiki contributors (01-15-2014). "Mikhail Prokhorov". Russian Capitalist Wiki . (Retrieved 02-13-2014). , ^ O'Connor, Clare (16 May 2011). "Billionaire Nets Owner Prokhorov To Enter PoliticsaAnd Take On Putin?". Forbes . Retrieved 1 June 2011 . , ^ Kramer, Andrew E., and Ellen Barry, "Amid Political Rancor, Russian Party Leader Quits", The New York Times , 15 September 2011. , ^ a b Morcroft, Greg, "NBA team owner Prokhorov to run against Putin", MarketWatch citing Bloomberg , 12 December 2011. , ^ Barry, Ellen, and David M. Herszenhorn, "Billionaire and Ex-Minister to Oppose Putin in Russian Presidential Election" (limited no-charge access), The New York Times , December 12, 2011. The Times quote also said "serious" instead of "important", v. the MarketWatch quote of the same date. Retrieved 2011-12-12. , ^ Profile: Mikhail Prokhorov, Russian billionaire, BBC News , ^ Results of the presidential elections in Russia 2012, sobesednik.ru . , ^ Russian Report: Prokhorov announced the establishment of new party, Vesti.ru , ^ DDDDDDDD vs DDDDDDDDDDD D DDDDDDDD / DDDDDD 28.02.12. 28 February 2012. Retrieved 5 January 2014. , ^ DDDDDDDD vs DDDDDDDDDDD D DDDDDDDD / DDDDDD 28.02.12. 28 February 2012. Retrieved 5 January 2014. , External links [ edit ] 
Article about his 12 January 2007 arrest, MSNBC., 2007 Kommersant article about Prokhorov standing down as Norilsk CEO, kommersant.com ., . 
v , t , e , . Brooklyn Nets , Formerly the New Jersey Americans , New York Nets and New Jersey Nets , Founded in 1967 , Based in Brooklyn, New York , . , Franchise Franchise, History, All-time roster, Draft history, Records, Head coaches, Seasons, Current season , . , Arenas Teaneck Armory, Long Island Arena, Island Garden, Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum, Rutgers Athletic Center, Izod Center, Prudential Center, Barclays Center , . , Personnel Owners Mikhail Prokhorov (majority owner) Bruce Ratner (minority) President Irina Pavlova General Manager Billy King Head Coach Lionel Hollins , General managers Zaslofsky, Carnesecca, Boe and Quinn, DeBusschere, Melchionni, Theokas, MacKinnon, Weltman, Reed, Nash, Thorn, Stefanski, Vandeweghe, Thorn, King , . , Head coaches Zaslofsky, Larese, Carnesecca, Loughery, MacKinnon, Brown, Blair, Albeck, Wohl, Reed, Fitch, Daly, Beard, Calipari, Casey, Scott, Frank, Vandeweghe, Barrise, Johnson, Carlesimo, Kidd, Hollins , . , D-League affiliate Fort Wayne Mad Ants, . , Retired numbers 3, 4, 5, 23, 25, 32, 52, . , ABA/NBA Finals ABA 1974 1976 NBA 2002 2003 , Rivalries New York Knicks, . , Culture and lore Erving for $6 million, 1984 playoff upset of 76ers, Just Wright , BrooklyKnight, Marv Albert, . , Media TV WWOR-TV YES Network Radio WFAN Announcers Ian Eagle Mike Fratello Ryan Ruocco Jim Spanarkel Donny Marshall Chris Carrino Tim Capstraw , Seasons (47) , 1960s 
, 1970s 
1973a74 , 1975a76 , 1980s 
, 1990s 
, 2000s 
, 2010s 
2014a15 , v , t , e , . Current majority team owners in the National Basketball Association , Eastern Conference , Atlantic, Central, Southeast, H. Irving Grousbeck, Wyc Grousbeck and Stephen Pagliuca (Boston Celtics), Mikhail Prokhorov (Brooklyn Nets), The Madison Square Garden Company (New York Knicks), Joshua Harris (Philadelphia 76ers), Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment (Toronto Raptors), . , Jerry Reinsdorf (Chicago Bulls), Dan Gilbert (Cleveland Cavaliers), Tom Gores (Detroit Pistons), Herbert Simon (Indiana Pacers), Wesley Edens and Marc Lasry (Milwaukee Bucks), . , Atlanta Spirit (Atlanta Hawks), Michael Jordan (Charlotte Hornets), Micky Arison (Miami Heat), Richard DeVos (Orlando Magic), Ted Leonsis (Washington Wizards), . , Western Conference , Southwest, Northwest, Pacific, Mark Cuban (Dallas Mavericks), Leslie Alexander (Houston Rockets), Robert J. Pera (Memphis Grizzlies), Tom Benson (New Orleans Pelicans), Peter Holt (San Antonio Spurs), . , Stan Kroenke (Denver Nuggets), Glen Taylor (Minnesota Timberwolves), Clayton Bennett (Oklahoma City Thunder), Paul Allen (Portland Trail Blazers), Karen Gail Miller and family (Utah Jazz), . , Peter Guber and Joe Lacob (Golden State Warriors), Steve Ballmer (Los Angeles Clippers), Johnny, Jim and Jeanie Buss (siblings in family trust) (Los Angeles Lakers), Robert Sarver (Phoenix Suns), Vivek RanadivA (Sacramento Kings), . , Persondata Name, Prokhorov, Mikhail Dmitrievitch, Alternative names, Short description, Billionaire entrepreneur, politician, sportsteam owner, Date of birth, 3 May 1965, Place of birth, Moscow, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union (present-day Moscow, Russia), Date of death, Place of death, Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mikhail_Prokhorov and oldid=618877159" Categories: 1965 births, Living people, Businesspeople in metals, People from Moscow, Russian businesspeople, Russian billionaires, Russian mass media owners, New Jersey Nets owners, Brooklyn Nets owners, Russian people of Jewish descent, Russian atheists, Russian liberals, Civic Platform (Russia) politicians, . Hidden categories: Pages using duplicate arguments in template calls, Use mdy dates from October 2012, Biography with signature, Articles with hCards, Articles with hAudio microformats, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from March 2012, Wikipedia articles needing clarification from February 2013, Articles with unsourced statements from February 2013, Articles with unsourced statements from March 2010, Articles with unsourced statements from July 2014, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
Afrikaans, OUOOOUO, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, DNDDDNNDD, AeAtina, Deutsch, Eesti, EspaAol, Euskara, UOOOU, FranAais, iei, Hrvatski, Italiano, LietuviA, DDDDDDDNDD, DDDDDD, aaaaaaaaaa, Nederlands, aeaee, DDND DDNDD, Polski, PortuguAs, DNNNDDD, DDND NNDD, Suomi, Svenska, DDNDNND/tatarAa, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, Tiang Viat, . Edit links This page was last modified on 28 July 2014 at 21:46.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
