
Mikhail Fradkov - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Mikhail Fradkov 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Mikhail Fradkov
DDNDDD DNDDDDD , Director of the Foreign Intelligence Service Incumbent , Assumed office 
6 October 2007, President Vladimir Putin
Dimitry Medvedev, Preceded by Sergei Lebedev, Prime Minister of Russia In office 
5 March 2004a 14 September 2007, President Vladimir Putin, Preceded by Viktor Khristenko, Succeeded by Viktor Zubkov, Personal details Born ( 1950-09-01 ) 1 September 1950 (age64) 
Samara, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Nationality Russian, Political party No affiliation, Spouse(s) Elena Ludenko-Fradkova, Children Peter
Paul, Religion Russian Orthodox, Military service Awards Order of Honour (Russian Federation), Mikhail Yefimovich Fradkov (Russian: DDNDDID DNDIDDDDN DNDDDDID ; IPA: [mEExEEil jEEfEimEvEEtIE frEtEkof] ; born 1 September 1950) is a Russian politician and statesman who was the Prime Minister of Russia from March 2004 to September 2007. Fradkov has been the head of Russia's Foreign Intelligence Service since 2007.
Contents
1 Early life , 2 Political career , 3 Honours and awards , 4 References , 5 External links , . 
Early life [ edit ] 
Fradkov was born near the city now known as Samara, to a family of Jewish origin on his father's side. [ 1 ] He studied at both the Moscow Machine Tool Design (NNDDDDDDNNNNDDDNDDNDND) Institute (graduated 1972) and the Foreign Trade Academy (graduated 1981). In 1973, he was posted to the economic section of the Soviet Union's embassy in India, where he remained for two years. He later held several positions back in Russia. In 1991, he was Russia's representative to General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in Geneva.
Political career [ edit ] 
In late 1992, Fradkov was appointed Deputy Minister for Foreign Economic Relations. Less than a year later, in October 1993, he became First Deputy Minister for Foreign Economic Relations. On 15 April 1997, a presidential decree by Boris Yeltsin appointed Fradkov Minister of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade, a post which he kept for nearly a year. In the middle of 1999, another presidential decree made him Minister of Trade.
He was made director of the Federal Tax Police by Vladimir Putin in 2001, having previously been Deputy Secretary of the Security Council. In 2003 he was made Russia's representative to the European Union. On 1 March 2004, he was nominated by Putin as the next Prime Minister, and this appointment was approved by the Duma on 5 March.
Fradkov's nomination as Prime Minister was a surprise to many observers, as he was not seen as part of Vladimir Putin's inner circle. Some commentators, such as the Carnegie Moscow Center's Lilia Shevtsova, have speculated that his "outsider" status might have been an important factor in his nomination, saying that Putin selected him as someone who was "not a representative of any of the warring clans" in the Kremlin. Former Prime Minister Sergei Stepashin, whom Fradkov has served under, called Fradkov "absolutely independent from any sort of political clan or group." Putin and his allies praised Fradkov as experienced, professional, and honest.
In December 2004 Fradkov was named Person of the Year by Expert magazine, an influential and respected Russian business weekly. [ citation needed ] 
On 12 May 2004, Fradkov was appointed Prime Minister for the second time, as Vladimir Putin had won the presidential election and been inaugurated on 7 May. See also Mikhail Fradkov's Second Cabinet.
On 12 September 2007 Fradkov announced his resignation to President Putin, which Putin accepted, nominating Viktor Zubkov as Fradkov's successor. [ 2 ] Putin bestowed an award on Fradkov and said that he would remain in office until the confirmation of a successor by the Duma. [ 3 ] Zubkov was confirmed on 14 September 2007. [ 4 ] 
On 6 October 2007, President Putin announced that he would appoint Fradkov as head of the Foreign Intelligence Service. [ 5 ] 
Fradkov's appointment as head of the Foreign Intelligence Service, combined with his service in India, are suggestive of a KGB background. This calls into question earlier assumptions that he was an "outsider" in Kremlin circles and provides an explanation for Putin's trust in him. [ 6 ] 
In November 2010 reports emerged that one of Fradkov's intelligence officers, a Colonel Shcherbakov, had defected to the United States on 21 June 2010, having betrayed a Russian spy ring in the USA. Critics alleged that the suspicions that Shcherbakov was a double agent which emerged when Shcherbakov turned down a promotion requiring a lie detector test should have been followed up more aggressively. Shcherbakov also had a daughter in the US. Kommersant, which broke the story, speculated that Fradkov might be replaced by Sergei Naryshkin and/or Russian intelligence services reorganized. [ 7 ] 
Pavel Fradkov, the son of Mikhail Fradkov, is a deputy head of the state property watchdog Rosimushchestvo. [ 8 ] 
Given his vast political experience, he is often suggested as a possible successor to Vladimir Putin when his time in office comes to an end. [ 9 ] 
Honours and awards [ edit ] 
This article incorporates information from the equivalent article on the Russian Wikipedia . Order of Merit for the Fatherland; 1st class (12 September 2007) - for outstanding contribution to the socio-economic policy, 2nd class (1 September 2005) - for his great personal contribution to the state's economic policy, and many years of honest work, . , Order of Honour, Medal "In Commemoration of the 850th Anniversary of Moscow", Medal "For Valiant Labour. To commemorate the 100th anniversary of Lenin's birth", Fellow Russian counter-intelligence - the strengthening of ties between the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and the Federal Counterintelligence Service, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ C. Lev Krichevsky, "Russian Jew named prime minister brings out Jewish pride a and anxiety", JTA , 2 March 2004. , ^ Nabi Abdullaev, "Fradkov Quits, Replacement a Surprise", The Moscow Times , Issue 3742, 13 September 2007, Page 1. , ^ C. J. Chivers, "Putin Shuffles Government, Posing Mystery", The New York Times , 13 September 2007. , ^ Michael Binyon, "Viktor Zubkov confirmed as Russian PM", The Times (UK), 14 September 2007. , ^ "Russian Foreign Intelligence" , ^ Andrei Soldatov, "The Re-agent", Novaya Gazeta , 11 October 2007. , ^ Alexander Bratersky, Fradkov Under Fire for Spy Defection, The Moscow Times , 12 November 2010 , ^ The following are some of the leading stories in Russia's newspapers on Wednesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy, Reuters , 15 August 2012 , ^ Whitmore, Brian. "The Post-Putin Sweepstakes". The Atlantic . Retrieved 15 March 2013 . , External links [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Mikhail Fradkov ., Biographies of the Fradkov Cabinet, Renaissance Capital Research Portal "The New Government", The Carnegie Moscow Center, . 
Political offices Precededby
Viktor Khristenko (acting) , Prime Minister of Russia 
2004 a 2007, Succeededby
Viktor Zubkov , Government offices Precededby
Sergei Lebedev , Director of Foreign Intelligence Service 
2007 a present, Succeededby
Incumbent , v , t , e , . Heads of government of Russia , note: Acting chairmen shown in italics . Questionable Heads of Government are written in small case . , Russian Empire 
Supreme Privy Council (Menshikov A Apraksin A Golovkin A Osterman A Dmitry Mikhailovich Golitsyn A Tolstoy A Karl Fridrikh Golsteyn-Gottorpsky A Aleksey Grigoryevich Dolgorukov), Vasily Lukich Dolgorukov, (Vasily Vladimirovich Dolgorukov A Mikhail Mikhailovich Golitsyn), . , Cabinet ministers Golovkin, Osterman, Minikh, Osterman, . , Conferency ministers (Stepan Fyodorovich Apraksin A Mikhail Petrovich Bestuzhev-Ryumin A Mikhail Mikhailovich Golitsyn A Alexey Petrovich Bestuzhev-Ryumin A Buturlin A Peter Ivanovich Shuvalov A Mikhail Illarionovich Vorontsov A Trubetskoy A Alexander Ivanovich Shuvalov A Romanov), (Shakhovsky A Neplyuev), Roman Illarionovich Vorontsov, . , Imperial Council (Georg Lyudwig Golshteyn-Gottorpsky A Golsteyn-Beksky A Minikh A Trubetskoy A M.I. Vorontsov A Vilbua A Volkonsky A Melgunov), . , Council Affairs Strekalov, Samoylov, Veydemeyer, Derzhavin, Veydemeyer, . , Committee of Ministers Vorontsov , Rumyantsev, Vyazmitinov , Nikolay Ivanovich Saltykov, Lopukhin, Kochubey, Novosiltsev, Vasilchikov, Levashov, Chernyshov, Orlov, Bludov, Gagarin, Ignatyev, Valuyev, Reytern, Bunge, Durnovo, Witte, Goremykin, Stolypin, Kokovtsov , Kokovtsov, Goremykin, Styurmer, Trepov, Golitsyn, . , Russian Republic Lvov, Kerensky, . , Russian SFSR Lenin, Rykov, Syrtsov, Sulimov, Bulganin, Vakhrushev, Khokhlov, Kosygin, Rodionov, Chernousov, Puzanov, Yasnov, Kozlov, Polyansky, Voronov, Solomentsev, Vorotnikov, Vlasov, Silayev, Lobov , Yeltsin, . , Soviet Union Lenin, Rykov, Molotov, Stalin, Malenkov, Bulganin, Khrushchev, Kosygin, Tikhonov, Ryzhkov, Pavlov, Silayev, . , Russian Federation Yeltsin, Gaidar, Chernomyrdin, Kiriyenko, Chernomyrdin , Primakov, Stepashin, Putin, Kasyanov, Khristenko , Fradkov , Zubkov, Putin, Medvedev, . , Council of Ministers of Russia, Heads of Government, Premiers of the USSR, . , Persondata Name, Fradkov, Mikhail Yefimovich, Alternative names, DNDDDDD DDNDDD DNDDDDDN (Russian), Short description, Prime Minister of Russia, Date of birth, 1 September 1950, Place of birth, Samara, Soviet Union, Date of death, living, Place of death, Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mikhail_Fradkov and oldid=615165589" Categories: 1950 births, Living people, People from Samara, Russia, Jewish Russian politicians, Recipients of the Order of Merit for the Fatherland, 1st class, Recipients of the Order of Honour (Russia), Heads of government of the Russian Federation, Russian politicians, . Hidden categories: Use dmy dates from June 2013, Articles containing Russian-language text, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from August 2012, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DDNODNNND, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, Brezhoneg, CatalA, AeAtina, Cymraeg, Deutsch, TTTTTTTTTT, Eesti, IIIIIIII, EspaAol, Esperanto, FranAais, Galego, iei, Hrvatski, Ido, Bahasa Indonesia, Italiano, LietuviA, Magyar, DDDDDDDNDD, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, Suomi, Svenska, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, Tiang Viat, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 1 July 2014 at 15:19.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
