
Mikhail Gorbachev - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Mikhail Gorbachev 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search "Gorbachev" redirects here. For other uses, see Gorbachev (disambiguation). This name uses Eastern Slavic naming customs; the patronymic is Sergeyevich and the family name is Gorbachev . 
Mikhail Gorbachev 
DDNDDD DDNDDNND , Gorbachev in 1987, President of the Soviet Union In office 
15 March 1990a 25 December 1991, Vice President Gennady Yanayev, Preceded by Office established, Succeeded by Office abolished
Boris Yeltsin
(as President of Russia), General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union In office 
11 March 1985a 24 August 1991, Deputy Yegor Ligachev
Vladimir Ivashko (1990-1991) , Preceded by Konstantin Chernenko, Succeeded by Office abolished
Boris Yeltsin
(as President of Russia), Chairman of the Supreme Soviet In office 
25 May 1989a 15 March 1990, Deputy Anatoly Lukyanov, Preceded by Office established, Succeeded by Anatoly Lukyanov (Executive roles transferred to President), Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet In office 
1 October 1988a 25 May 1989, Preceded by Andrei Gromyko, Succeeded by Office abolished, Full member of the 25th, 26th, 27th, 28th Politburo In office 
21 October 1980a 24 August 1991, Candidate member of the 25th Politburo In office 
27 November 1979a 21 October 1980, Member of the 25th, 26th, 27th, 28th Secretariat In office 
27 November 1978a 24 August 1991, Personal details Born Mikhail Sergeyevich Gorbachev 
( 1931-03-02 ) 2 March 1931 (age83) 
Privolnoye, Stavropol Krai, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Nationality Russian, Political party Independent Democratic Party (2008apresent) 
Union of Social Democrats (2007apresent) , Other political
affiliations Social Democratic Party (2001a2004) 
Communist Party (1950a1991) , Spouse(s) Raisa Gorbachova (m. 1953a1999; her death) , Children Irina Mikhailovna Virganskaya, Alma mater Moscow State University, Profession Lawyer, Religion None (atheist: see Attitude to religion), Signature , Website The Gorbachev Foundation, Mikhail Gorbachev's voice Sorry, your browser either has JavaScript disabled or does not have any supported player.
You can download the clip or download a player to play the clip in your browser. recorded November 2012 
, Problems playing this file? See media help. , Mikhail Sergeyevich Gorbachev (Russian: DDNDDID DDNDDIDDDN DDNDDNND , tr. Mikhail Sergeyevich Gorbachyov ; IPA: [mEExEEil sEErEEEejEvEEtIE EErbEEtIEEf] ( listen ) ; born 2 March 1931) is a former Soviet statesman. He was the eighth and last leader of the Soviet Union, having served as General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union from 1985 until 1991, and as the country's head of state from 1988 until its dissolution in 1991 (titled as Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet from 1988 to 1989, as Chairman of the Supreme Soviet from 1989 to 1990, and as President of the Soviet Union from 1990 to 1991). He was the only general secretary in the history of the Soviet Union to have been born after the October Revolution.
Gorbachev was born in Stavropol Krai into a peasant UkrainianaRussian family, and in his teens operated combine harvesters on collective farms. He graduated from Moscow State University in 1955 with a degree in law. While he was at the university, he joined the Communist Party, and soon became very active within it. In 1970, he was appointed the First Party Secretary of the Stavropol Kraikom, First Secretary to the Supreme Soviet in 1974, and appointed a member of the Politburo in 1979. Within three years of the death of Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev, following the brief "interregna" of Andropov and Chernenko, Gorbachev was elected General Secretary by the Politburo in 1985. Before he reached the post, he had occasionally been mentioned in Western newspapers as a likely next leader and a man of the younger generation at the top level.
Gorbachev's policies of glasnost ("openness") and perestroika ("restructuring") as well as summit conferences with United States President Ronald Reagan and his reorientation of Soviet strategic aims contributed to the end of the Cold War, removed the constitutional role of the Communist Party in governing the state, and inadvertently led to the dissolution of the Soviet Union. He was awarded the Otto Hahn Peace Medal in 1989, the Nobel Peace Prize in 1990 and the Harvey Prize in 1992, as well as honorary doctorates from various universities.
In September 2008, Gorbachev and business oligarch Alexander Lebedev announced they would form the Independent Democratic Party of Russia, [ 1 ] and in May 2009 Gorbachev announced that the launch was imminent. [ 2 ] This was Gorbachev's third attempt to establish a political party, having started the Social Democratic Party of Russia in 2001 and the Union of Social Democrats in 2007. [ 3 ] 
The New EncyclopAdia Britannica calls Gorbachev athe single most important initiator of a series of events in late 1989 and 1990 that transformed the political fabric of Europe and marked the beginning of the end of the Cold War.a British prime minister Margaret Thatcher said after first meeting him: aI like Mr. Gorbachev. We can do business together.a Gail Sheehy, author of the book GorbachevaThe Making of the Man Who Shook the World, concludes: aThatcher could congratulate herself on being, ain a very real sense, godmother to the Reagan-Gorbachev relationship.aa
The EncyclopAdia Britannica explains: aHis goal was to set in motion a revolution controlled from above. He did not wish to undermine the Soviet system, only to make it more efficient.a
Contents
1 Early and personal life , 2 Rise in the Communist Party , 3 General Secretary of the CPSU 3.1 Domestic reforms 3.1.1 Perestroika , 3.1.2 Glasnost , . , 3.2 Presidency of the USSR 3.2.1 Foreign engagements , 3.2.2 Dissolution of the Soviet Union 3.2.2.1 Crisis of the Union: 1990a1991 , 3.2.2.2 The August 1991 coup , 3.2.2.3 Aftermath of the coup and the final collapse , . , . , . , 4 Post-presidency 4.1 Criticism of Vladimir Putin , . , 5 Call for global restructuring , 6 Honours and accolades 6.1 Soviet Union and Russia decorations , 6.2 Foreign decorations and awards , . , 7 Attitude to religion , 8 Port-wine birthmark , 9 See also , 10 References , 11 Further reading , 12 External links , . 
Early and personal life [ edit ] 
Gorbachev was born on 2 March 1931 in Stavropol, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, into a mixed Russian-Ukrainian family [ 4 ] of migrants from Voronezh and Chernigov Governorates. As a child, Gorbachev experienced the Soviet famine of 1932a1933. He recalled in a memoir that "In that terrible year [in 1933] nearly half the population of my native village, Privolnoye, starved to death, including two sisters and one brother of my father." [ 5 ] Both of his grandfathers were arrested on false charges in the 1930s; his paternal grandfather Andrey Moiseyevich Gorbachev ( DDDNDD DDDNDDDDN DDNDDNDD ) was sent to exile in Siberia. [ 6 ] [ 7 ] 
His father was a combine harvester operator and World War II veteran, named Sergey Andreyevich Gorbachev. His mother, Maria Panteleyevna Gorbacheva (nAe Gopkalo), was a kolkhoz worker. [ 7 ] In his teens, he operated combine harvesters on collective farms. He graduated from Moscow State University in 1955 with a degree in law. In 1967 he qualified as an agricultural economist via a correspondence masters degree at the Stavropol Institute of Agriculture. While at the university, he joined the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and soon became very active within the party.
Gorbachev met his future wife, Raisa Titarenko, at Moscow State University. They married in September 1953 and moved to Stavropol upon graduation. She gave birth to their only child, daughter Irina Mikhailovna Virganskaya ( DNDIDD DDNDIDDDDDD DDNDDIDNDDN ), in 1957. Raisa Gorbacheva died of leukemia in 1999. [ 8 ] Gorbachev has two granddaughters (Ksenia and Anastasia) and one great granddaughter (Aleksandra).
Rise in the Communist Party [ edit ] 
Gorbachev attended the important twenty-second Party Congress in October 1961, where Nikita Khrushchev announced a plan to surpass the U.S. in per capita production within twenty years. Gorbachev rose in the Communist League hierarchy and worked his way up through territorial leagues of the party. He was promoted to Head of the Department of Party Organs in the Stavropol Agricultural Kraikom in 1963. [ 9 ] 
In 1970, he was appointed First Party Secretary of the Stavropol Kraikom, a body of the CPSU, becoming one of the youngest provincial party chiefs in the nation. [ 9 ] In this position he helped reorganise the collective farms, improve workers' living conditions, expand the size of their private plots, and gave them a greater voice in planning. [ 9 ] 
Identity cards of the General Secretary Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU) Mikhail Gorbachev (1986-1991 yy.) 
He was soon made a member of the Communist Party Central Committee in 1971. Three years later, in 1974, he was made a Deputy to the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union and Chairman of the Standing Commission on Youth Affairs. He was subsequently appointed to the Central Committee's Secretariat for Agriculture in 1978, replacing Fyodor Kulakov, who had supported Gorbachev's appointment, after Kulakov died of a heart attack. [ 9 ] [ 10 ] In 1979, Gorbachev was elected a candidate (non-voting) member of the Politburo, the highest authority in the country, and received full membership in 1980. Gorbachev owed his steady rise to power to the patronage of Mikhail Suslov, the powerful chief ideologist of the CPSU. [ 11 ] 
During Yuri Andropov's tenure as General Secretary (1982a1984), Gorbachev became one of the Politburo's most visible and active members. [ 11 ] With responsibility over personnel, working together with Andropov, 20 percent of the top echelon of government ministers and regional governors were replaced, often with younger men. During this time Grigory Romanov, Nikolai Ryzhkov, and Yegor Ligachev were elevated, the latter two working closely with Gorbachev, Ryzhkov on economics, Ligachev on personnel. [ 12 ] [ pageneeded ] 
Gorbachev's positions within the CPSU created more opportunities to travel abroad, and this would profoundly affect his political and social views in the future as leader of the country. In 1972, he headed a Soviet delegation to Belgium, [ 9 ] and three years later he led a delegation to West Germany; in 1983 he headed a delegation to Canada to meet with Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau and members of the Commons and Senate. In 1984, he travelled to the United Kingdom, where he met British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher.
Andropov died in 1984, and indicated that he wanted Gorbachev to succeed him as General Secretary. Instead, the aged Konstantin Chernenko took power, even though he himself was terminally ill. [ 13 ] After Chernenko's death the following year, it became clear to the party hierarchy that younger leadership was needed. [ 14 ] Gorbachev was elected General Secretary by the Politburo on 11 March 1985, only three hours after Chernenko's death. Upon his accession at age 54, he was the youngest member of the Politburo. [ 11 ] He was also the first person to be elected party leader after having initially failed in a previous bid for the post. [ 13 ] 
General Secretary of the CPSU [ edit ] 
U.S. President Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev shaking hands at the American-Soviet summit in Washington, D.C., in 1987 
Mikhail Gorbachev was the Party's first leader to have been born after the Revolution. As de facto ruler of the USSR, he tried to reform the stagnating Party and the state economy by introducing glasnost ("openness"), perestroika ("restructuring"), demokratizatsiya ("democratization"), and uskoreniye ("acceleration" of economic development), which were launched at the 27th Congress of the CPSU in February 1986.
Domestic reforms [ edit ] 
Economic growth and regression [ 15 ] Year Indicators Growth (in/th> 1986, GNP growth, 4.1, Internal debt asDP, 20, Budget deficit asDP, a2.4, Balance payments in convertible currencies (U.S. dollars billions), 0.637, 1987, GNP growth, 1.3, Internal debt asDP, 22, Budget deficit asDP, a6.2, Balance payments in convertible currencies (U.S. dollars billions), a2.3, 1988, GNP growth, 2.1, Internal debt asDP, 36, Budget deficit asDP, a8.8, Balance payments in convertible currencies (US dollars billions), a0.72, 1989, GNP growth, 1.5, Internal debt asDP, 43, Budget deficit asDP, a11, Balance payments in convertible currencies (U.S. dollars billions), a3.7, 1990, GNP growth, a12, Internal debt asDP, 55, Budget deficit asDP, a14, Balance payments in convertible currencies (U.S. dollars billions), a11.8, 1991, GNP growth, a13, Internal debt asDP, a, Budget deficit asDP, a20, Balance payments in convertible currencies (U.S. dollars billions), a, Gorbachev's primary goal as General Secretary was to revive the Soviet economy after the stagnant Brezhnev years. [ 11 ] In 1985, he announced that the Soviet economy was stalled and that reorganization was needed. Gorbachev proposed a "vague programme of reform", which was adopted at the April Plenum of the Central Committee. [ 10 ] He called for fast-paced technological modernization and increased industrial and agricultural productivity, and he attempted to reform the Soviet bureaucracy to be more efficient and prosperous. [ 11 ] 
Gorbachev soon came to believe that fixing the Soviet economy would be nearly impossible without reforming the political and social structure of the Communist nation. [ 16 ] Gorbachev also initiated the concept of gospriyomka (state acceptance of production) during his time as leader, [ 17 ] which represented state approval of goods in an effort to maintain quality control and combat inferior manufacturing. [ 18 ] 
He made a speech in May 1985 in Leningrad (now St. Petersburg) advocating widespread reforms. The reforms began in personnel changes; the most notable change was the replacement of Andrei Gromyko as Minister of Foreign Affairs with Eduard Shevardnadze. Gromyko, disparaged as "Mr Nyet" in the West, had served for 28 years as Minister of Foreign Affairs and was considered an 'old thinker'. Robert D. English notes that, despite Shevardnadze's diplomatic inexperience, Gorbachev "shared with him an outlook" and experience in managing an agricultural region of the Soviet Union (Georgia), which meant that both had weak links to the powerful military-industrial complex. [ 19 ] 
A number of reformist ideas were discussed by Politburo members. One of the first reforms Gorbachev introduced was the anti-alcohol campaign, begun in May 1985, which was designed to fight widespread alcoholism in the Soviet Union. Prices of vodka, wine, and beer were raised, and their sales were restricted. It was pursued vigorously and cut both alcohol sales and government revenue. [ 20 ] It was a serious blow to the state budgetaa loss of approximately 100billion rubles according to Alexander Yakovlevaafter alcohol production migrated to the black market economy. The program proved to be a useful symbol for change in the country, however. [ 20 ] 
The purpose of reform, however, was to prop up the centrally planned economy, not transition to market socialism. Speaking in late summer 1985 to the secretaries for economic affairs of the central committees of the East European communist parties, Gorbachev said: "Many of you see the solution to your problems in resorting to market mechanisms in place of direct planning. Some of you look at the market as a lifesaver for your economies. But, comrades, you should not think about lifesavers but about the ship, and the ship is socialism." [ 21 ] 
Perestroika [ edit ] 
Main article: Perestroika Gorbachev at the Brandenburg Gate in 1986 during a visit to East Germany 
Gorbachev initiated his new policy of perestroika (literally "restructuring" in Russian) and its attendant radical reforms in 1986; they were sketched, but not fully spelled out, at the XXVIIth Party Congress in FebruaryaMarch 1986. The new policy of "reconstruction" was introduced in an attempt to overcome the economic stagnation by creating a dependable and effective mechanism for accelerating economic and social progress. [ 22 ] 
According to Gorbachev, perestroika was the "conference of development of democracy, socialist self-government, encouragement of initiative and creative endeavor, improved order and disciple [ verification needed ] , more glasnost, criticism and self-criticism in all spheres of our society. It is utmost respect for the individual and consideration for personal dignity". [ 22 ] 
Domestic changes continued apace. In a bombshell speech during Armenian SSR's Central Committee Plenum of the Communist Party, the young First Secretary of Armenia's Hrazdan Regional Communist Party, Hayk Kotanjian, criticised rampant corruption in the Armenian Communist Party's highest echelons, implicating Armenian SSR Communist Party First Secretary Karen Demirchyan and calling for his resignation. Symbolically, intellectual Andrei Sakharov was invited to return to Moscow by Gorbachev in December 1986 after six years of internal exile in Gorky. During the same month, however, signs of the nationalities problem that would haunt the later years of the Soviet Union surfaced as riots, named Jeltoqsan, occurred in Kazakhstan after Dinmukhamed Kunayev was replaced as First Secretary of the Communist Party of Kazakhstan.
The Central Committee Plenum in January 1987 would see the crystallisation of Gorbachev's political reforms, including proposals for multi-candidate elections and the appointment of non-Party members to government positions. He also first raised the idea of expanding co-operatives at the plenum. Economic reforms took up much of the rest of 1987, as a new law giving enterprises more independence was passed in June and Gorbachev released a book, Perestroika: New Thinking for Our Country and the World , in November, elucidating his main ideas for reform. In 1987 he rehabilitated many opponents of Joseph Stalin, another part of the De-Stalinization, which began in 1956, when Lenin's Testament was published.
Glasnost [ edit ] 
Main article: Glasnost Gorbachev with Erich Honecker, East Germany 
1988 would see Gorbachev's introduction of glasnost , which gave the Soviet people freedoms that they had never previously known, including greater freedom of speech. The press became far less controlled, and thousands of political prisoners and many dissidents were released. Gorbachev's goal in undertaking glasnost was to pressure conservatives within the CPSU who opposed his policies of economic restructuring, and he also hoped that through different ranges of openness, debate and participation, the Soviet people would support his reform initiatives. At the same time, he opened himself and his reforms up for more public criticism, evident in Nina Andreyeva's critical letter in a March edition of Sovetskaya Rossiya . [ 10 ] Gorbachev acknowledged that his liberalising policies of glasnost and perestroika owed a great deal to Alexander DubAek's "Socialism with a human face". Indeed, when one reporter asked him what the difference was between his policies and the Prague Spring, Gorbachev replied, "Nineteen years". [ 23 ] 
The Law on Cooperatives enacted in May 1988 was perhaps the most radical of the economic reforms during the early part of the Gorbachev era. For the first time since Vladimir Lenin's New Economic Policy, the law permitted private ownership of businesses in the service, manufacturing, and foreign-trade sectors. The law initially imposed high taxes and employment restrictions, although these were ignored by some SSRs. Later the restrictions were revised to avoid discouraging private-sector activity. Under the provision for private ownership, cooperative restaurants, shops, and manufacturers became part of the Soviet scene. Under the new law, the restructuring of large "All-Union" industrial organisations also began. Aeroflot was split up, eventually becoming several independent airlines. These newly autonomous business organisations were encouraged to seek foreign investment.
In June 1988, at the CPSU's Party Conference, Gorbachev launched radical reforms meant to reduce party control of the government apparatus. He proposed a new executive in the form of a presidential system, as well as a new legislative element, to be called the Congress of People's Deputies. [ 10 ] Elections to the Congress of People's Deputies were held throughout the Soviet Union in March and April 1989. This was the first free election in the Soviet Union since 1917. Gorbachev became Chairman of the Supreme Soviet (or head of state) on 25 May 1989.
Presidency of the USSR [ edit ] 
On 15 March 1990, Gorbachev was elected as the first executive President of the Soviet Union with 59f the Deputies' votes. He was the sole candidate on the ballot. The Congress met for the first time on 25 May in order to elect representatives from Congress to sit on the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union. Nonetheless, the Congress posed problems for Gorbachev: its sessions were televised, airing more criticism and encouraging people to expect ever more rapid reform. In the elections, many Party candidates were defeated. Furthermore, Boris Yeltsin was elected in Moscow and returned to political prominence to become an increasingly vocal critic of Gorbachev. [ 10 ] 
Following American practice, Gorbachev chose a Vice President. However, when first Shevardnadze, then Kazakh leader Nursultan Nazarbayev, turned it down, Gorbachev chose Gennady Yanayev, the head of the All-Union Central Council of Trade Unions and a known hardliner. This decision would come back to haunt Gorbachev later. [ 13 ] 
Foreign engagements [ edit ] 
Gorbachev meets Romanian leader Nicolae CeauAescu, 1985 
In contrast to his controversial domestic reforms, Gorbachev was largely hailed in the West for his 'new thinking' in foreign affairs. During his tenure, he sought to improve relations and trade with the West by reducing Cold War tensions. He established close relationships with several Western leaders, such as West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, U.S. President Ronald Reagan, and British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcherawho famously remarked: "I like Mr. Gorbachev; we can do business together". [ 24 ] 
Gorbachev understood the link between achieving international dAtente and domestic reform and thus began extending "New Thinking" abroad immediately. On 8 April 1985, he announced the suspension of the deployment of SS-20s in Europe as a move towards resolving intermediate-range nuclear weapons (INF) issues. Later that year, in September, Gorbachev proposed that the Soviets and Americans both cut their nuclear arsenals in half. He went to France on his first trip abroad as Soviet leader in October. November saw the Geneva Summit between Gorbachev and Ronald Reagan. Though no concrete agreement was made, Gorbachev and Reagan struck a personal relationship and decided to hold further meetings. [ 10 ] 
Reagan and Gorbachev with wives (Nancy and Raisa, respectively) attending a dinner at the Soviet Embassy in Washington, DC. 9 December 1987 
January 1986 would see Gorbachev make his boldest international move so far, when he announced his proposal for the elimination of intermediate-range nuclear weapons in Europe and his strategy for eliminating all nuclear weapons by the year 2000 (often referred to as the 'January Proposal'). He also began the process of withdrawing troops from Afghanistan and Mongolia on 28 July. [ 10 ] Nonetheless, many observers, such as Jack F. Matlock, Jr. (despite generally praising Gorbachev as well as Reagan), have criticized Gorbachev for taking too long to achieve withdrawal from the Afghanistan War, citing it as an example of lingering elements of "old thinking" in Gorbachev. [ 25 ] 
On 11 October 1986, Gorbachev and Reagan met at HAfAi house in ReykjavAk, Iceland, to discuss reducing intermediate-range nuclear weapons in Europe. To the immense surprise of both men's advisers, the two agreed in principle to removing INF systems from Europe and to equal global limits of 100 INF missile warheads. They also essentially agreed in principle to eliminate all nuclear weapons in 10 years (by 1996), instead of by the year 2000 as in Gorbachev's original outline. [ 25 ] Continuing trust issues, particularly over reciprocity and Reagan's Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI), meant that the summit is often regarded as a failure for not producing a concrete agreement immediately, or for leading to a staged elimination of nuclear weapons. In the long term, nevertheless, this would culminate in the signing of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty in 1987, after Gorbachev had proposed this elimination on 22 July 1987 (and it was subsequently agreed on in Geneva on 24 November). [ 10 ] 
In February 1988, Gorbachev announced the full withdrawal of Soviet forces from Afghanistan. The withdrawal was completed the following year, although the civil war continued as the Mujahedin pushed to overthrow the pro-Soviet Najibullah government. An estimated 28, 000 Soviets were killed between 1979 and 1989 as a result of the Afghanistan War.
Gorbachev in one-on-one discussions with Reagan 
Also during 1988, Gorbachev announced that the Soviet Union would abandon the Brezhnev Doctrine, and allow the Eastern bloc nations to freely determine their own internal affairs. Jokingly dubbed the "Sinatra Doctrine" by Gorbachev's Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennadi Gerasimov, this policy of non-intervention in the affairs of the other Warsaw Pact states proved to be the most momentous of Gorbachev's foreign policy reforms. In his 6 July 1989 speech arguing for a "common European home" before the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, France, Gorbachev declared: "The social and political order in some countries changed in the past, and it can change in the future too, but this is entirely a matter for each people to decide. Any interference in the internal affairs, or any attempt to limit the sovereignty of another state, friend, ally, or another, would be inadmissible." A month earlier, on 4 June 1989, elections had taken place in Poland and the communist government had already been deposed.
Moscow's abandonment of the Brezhnev Doctrine allowed the rise of popular upheavals in Eastern Europe throughout 1989, in which Communism was overthrown. By the end of 1989, revolts had spread from one Eastern European capital to another, ousting the regimes built in Eastern Europe after World War II. With the exception of Romania, the popular upheavals against the pro-Soviet Communist regimes were all peaceful ones ( see Revolutions of 1989 ). The loosening of Soviet hegemony over Eastern Europe effectively ended the Cold War, and for this, Gorbachev was awarded the Otto Hahn Peace Medal in Gold in 1989 and the Nobel Peace Prize on 15 October 1990.
Reagan and Vice-President Bush meeting with Gorbachev on Governor's Island, New York City, 7 December 1988 
On 9 November, people in East Germany (the German Democratic Republic, GDR) were suddenly allowed to cross through the Berlin Wall into West Berlin, following a peaceful protest against the country's dictatorial administration, including a demonstration by some one million people in East Berlin on 4 November. Unlike earlier riots which were ended by military force with the help of the USSR, Gorbachev, who came to be lovingly called "Gorby" in West Germany, now decided not to interfere with the process in Germany. [ 26 ] He stated that German reunification was an internal German matter.
The rest of 1989 was taken up by the increasingly problematic nationalities question and the dramatic fragmentation of the Eastern Bloc. Despite international dAtente reaching unprecedented levels, with the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan completed in January and U.S.-Soviet talks continuing between Gorbachev and George H.W. Bush, domestic reforms were suffering from increasing divergence between reformists, who criticised the pace of change, and conservatives, who criticized the extent of change. Gorbachev states that he tried to find the middle ground between both groups, but this would draw more criticism towards him. [ 10 ] The story from this point on moves away from reforms and becomes one of the nationalities question and the eventual dissolution of the Soviet Union.
Gorbachev and George H.W. Bush, 1990 
Coit D. Blacker wrote in 1990 that the Soviet leadership "appeared to have believed that whatever loss of authority the Soviet Union might suffer in Eastern Europe would be more than offset by a net increase in its influence in Western Europe". [ 27 ] Nevertheless, it is unlikely that Gorbachev ever intended for the complete dismantling of Communism in the Warsaw Pact countries. Rather, he assumed that the Communist parties of Eastern Europe could be reformed in a similar way to the reforms he hoped to achieve in the CPSU. Just as perestroika was aimed at making the USSR more efficient economically and politically, Gorbachev believed that the Comecon and Warsaw Pact could be reformed into more effective entities. Alexander Yakovlev, a close advisor to Gorbachev, would later state that it would have been "absurd to keep the system" in Eastern Europe. In contrast to Gorbachev, Yakovlev had come to the conclusion that the Soviet-dominated Comecon was inherently unworkable and that the Warsaw Pact had "no relevance to real life". [ 28 ] 
Dissolution of the Soviet Union [ edit ] 
Main article: Dissolution of the Soviet Union 
While Gorbachev's political initiatives were positive for freedom and democracy in the Soviet Union and its Eastern bloc allies, the economic policy of his government gradually brought the country close to disaster. By the end of the 1980s, severe shortages of basic food supplies (meat, sugar) led to the reintroduction of the war-time system of distribution using food cards that limited each citizen to a certain amount of product per month. Compared to 1985, the state deficit grew from 0 to 109billion rubles; gold funds decreased from 2, 000 to 200 tons; and external debt grew from 0 to 120billion dollars.
Furthermore, the democratisation of the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe had irreparably undermined the power of the CPSU and Gorbachev himself. The relaxation of censorship and attempts to create more political openness had the unintended effect of re-awakening long-suppressed nationalist and anti-Russian feelings in the Soviet republics. Calls for greater independence from Moscow's rule grew louder, especially in the Baltic republics of Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia, which had been annexed into the Soviet Union by Joseph Stalin in 1940. Nationalist feeling also took hold in Georgia, Ukraine, Armenia, and Azerbaijan.
In December 1986, the first signs of the nationalities problem that would haunt the later years of the Soviet Union's existence surfaced as riots, named Jeltoqsan, occurred in Alma Ata and other areas of Kazakhstan after Dinmukhamed Kunayev was replaced as First Secretary of the Communist Party of Kazakhstan. Nationalism would then surface in Russia in May 1987, as 600 members of Pamyat, a nascent Russian nationalist group, demonstrated in Moscow and were becoming increasingly linked to Boris Yeltsin, who received their representatives at a meeting. [ 10 ] 
Glasnost hastened awareness of the national sovereignty problem. The free flow of information had been so completely suppressed for so long in the Soviet Union that many of the ruling class had all but forgotten that the Soviet Union was an empire conquered through military force. Thus, the extremity of local desire for independent control of their own affairs took these leaders by surprise, and the leaders were unprepared for the depth of the long pent-up feelings that were released.
Violence erupted in Nagorno-Karabakhaan Armenian-populated enclave of Azerbaijanabetween February and April, when Armenians living in the area began a new wave of demands to transfer of NKAO from Azerbaijan to Armenia which eventually led to full scale Nagorno-Karabakh War. [ 29 ] Gorbachev imposed a temporary solution, but it did not last, as fresh trouble arose in Nagorno-Karabakh between June and July. Turmoil would once again return in late 1988, this time in Armenia itself, when the Spitak earthquake hit the region on 7 December. Poor local infrastructure magnified the hazard and some 25, 000 people died. [ 10 ] Gorbachev was forced to break off his trip to the United States and cancel planned travel to Cuba and the UK. [ 10 ] 
In March and April 1989 elections to the Congress of People's Deputies took place throughout the Soviet Union. This returned many pro-independence republicans, as many CPSU candidates were rejected. The televised Congress debates allowed the dissemination of pro-independence propositions. Indeed, 1989 would see numerous nationalistic protests; for example, beginning with the Baltic republics in January, laws were passed in most non-Russian republics giving precedence for the local language over Russian.
Gorbachev addressing the United Nations General Assembly in December 1988. During the speech he dramatically announced deep unilateral cuts in Soviet military forces in Eastern Europe. 
9 April would see the crackdown of nationalist demonstrations by Soviet troops in Tbilisi, Georgia. There would be further bloody protests in Uzbekistan in June, where Uzbeks and Meskhetian Turks clashed in Fergana, Uzbekistan. Apart from this violence, three major events that altered the face of the nationalities issue occurred in 1989. Estonia had declared its sovereignty on 16 November 1988, to be followed by Lithuania in May 1989 and by Latvia in July (the Communist Party of Lithuania would also declare its independence from the CPSU in December). This brought the Union and the republics into clear confrontation and would form a precedent for other republics.
Around the fiftieth anniversary of the signing of the 1939 Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact in July 1989, the Soviet government formally acknowledged that the plan had included the inclusion of the Baltic states into the Soviet sphere of influence, which preceded and paved the way for their annexation into the USSR in 1940. The revelation supported the long-denied proposition that the Baltic states had been involuntarily brought into the Soviet Union and substantially boosted the Baltic aspirations to reestablish their independence. Finally, the Eastern bloc fragmented in the autumn of 1989, raising hopes that Gorbachev would extend his non-interventionist doctrine to the internal workings of the USSR. [ 10 ] 
Crisis of the Union: 1990a1991 [ edit ] 
1990 began with nationalist turmoil in January. Azerbaijanis rioted and troops were sent in to restore order; many Moldovans demonstrated in favour of unification with post-Communist Romania; and Lithuanian demonstrations continued. The same month, in a hugely significant move, Armenia asserted its right to veto laws coming from the All-Union level, thus intensifying the "war of laws" between republics and Moscow. [ 10 ] 
Soon after, the CPSU, which had already lost much of its control, began to lose even more power as Gorbachev deepened political reform. The February Central Committee Plenum advocated multi-party elections; local elections held between February and March returned a large number of pro-independence candidates. The Congress of People's Deputies then amended the Soviet Constitution in March, removing Article 6, which guaranteed the monopoly of the CPSU. The process of political reform was therefore coming from above and below, and was gaining a momentum that would augment republican nationalism. Soon after the constitutional amendment, Lithuania declared independence and elected Vytautas Landsbergis as Chairman of the Supreme Council (head of state). [ 10 ] 
On 15 March, Gorbachev himself was elected as the firstaand as it turned out, onlyaPresident of the Soviet Union by the Congress of People's Deputies and chose a Presidential Council of 15 politicians. Gorbachev was essentially creating his own political support base independent of CPSU conservatives and radical reformers. The new Executive was designed to be a powerful position to guide the spiraling reform process, and the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union and Congress of People's Deputies had already given Gorbachev increasingly presidential powers in February. This would be again a source of criticism from reformers. Despite the apparent increase in Gorbachev's power, he was unable to stop the process of nationalistic assertion. Further embarrassing facts about Soviet history were revealed in April, when the government admitted that the NKVD had carried out the infamous Katyn Massacre of Polish army officers during World WarII; previously, the USSR had blamed Nazi Germany. More significantly for Gorbachev's position, Boris Yeltsin was reaching a new level of prominence, as he was elected Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the Russian SFSR in May, effectively making him the de jure leader of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic. Problems for Gorbachev would once more come from the Russian parliament in June, when it declared the precedence of Russian laws over All-Union-level legislation. [ 10 ] 
Anti-Armenian and anti-government Dushanbe riots in Tajikistan, 1990 
Gorbachev's personal position continued changing. At the 28th CPSU Congress in July, Gorbachev was re-elected General Secretary but this position was now completely independent of Soviet government, and the Politburo had no say in the ruling of the country. Gorbachev further reduced Party power in the same month, when he issued a decree abolishing Party control of all areas of the media and broadcasting. At the same time, Gorbachev was working to consolidate his presidential position, culminating in the Supreme Soviet granting him special powers to rule by decree in September in order to pass a much-needed plan for transition to a market economy. However, the Supreme Soviet could not agree on which program to adopt. Gorbachev pressed on with political reform, his proposal for setting up a new Soviet government, with a Soviet of the Federation consisting of representatives from all 15 republics, was passed through the Supreme Soviet in November. In December, Gorbachev was once more granted increased executive power by the Supreme Soviet, arguing that such moves were necessary to counter "the dark forces of nationalism". Such moves led to Eduard Shevardnadze's resignation; Gorbachev's former ally warned of an impending dictatorship. This move was a serious blow to Gorbachev personally and to his efforts for reform. [ 10 ] 
Meanwhile, Gorbachev was losing further ground to nationalists. October 1990 saw the founding of DemRossiya, the Russian pro-reform coalition; a few days later, both Ukraine and Russia declared their laws completely sovereign over Soviet level laws. The 'war of laws' had become an open battle, with the Supreme Soviet refusing to recognise the actions of the two republics. Gorbachev would publish the draft of a new union treaty in November, which envisioned a continued union called the Union of Sovereign Soviet Republics, but, going into 1991, the actions of Gorbachev were steadily being overtaken by the centrifugal secessionist forces. [ 10 ] 
Berlin Wall, "Thank you, Gorbi!", October 1990 
January and February would see a new level of turmoil in the Baltic republics. On 10 January 1991 Gorbachev issued an ultimatum-like request addressing the Lithuanian Supreme Council demanding the restoration of the validity of the constitution of the Soviet Union in Lithuania and the revoking of all anti-constitutional laws. [ 30 ] In his Memoirs , Gorbachev asserts that on 12 January he convened the Council of the Federation and political measures to prevent bloodshed were agreed, including sending representatives of the Council of the Federation on a "fact-finding mission" to Vilnius. However, before the delegation arrived, the local branches of the KGB and armed forces had worked together to seize the TV tower in Vilnius; Gorbachev asked the heads of the KGB and military if they had approved such action, and there is no evidence that they, or Gorbachev, ever approved this move. Gorbachev cites documents found in the RSFSR Prokuratura after the August coup, which only mentioned that "some 'authorities'" had sanctioned the actions. [ 10 ] 
The book Alphaa the KGB's Top Secret Unit also suggests that a "KGB operation co-ordinated with the military" was undertaken by the KGB Alpha Group. [ 31 ] Archie Brown, in The Gorbachev Factor , uses the memoirs of many people around Gorbachev and in the upper echelons of the Soviet political landscape, to implicate General Valentin Varennikov, a member of the August coup plotters, and General Vladislav Achalov, another August coup conspirator. These persons were characterised as individuals "who were prepared to remove Gorbachev from his presidential office unconstitutionally" and "were more than capable of using unauthorised violence against nationalist separatists some months earlier". Brown criticises Gorbachev for "a conscious tilt in the direction of the conservative forces he was trying to keep within an increasingly fragile coalition" who would later betray him; he also criticises Gorbachev "for his tougher line and heightened rhetoric against the Lithuanians in the days preceding the attack and for his slowness in condemning the killings" but notes that Gorbachev did not approve any action and was seeking political solutions. [ 32 ] 
As a result of continued violence, at least 14 civilians were killed and more than 600 injured from 11a13 January 1991 in Vilnius, Lithuania. The strong Western reaction and the actions of Russian democratic forces put the president and government of the Soviet Union into an awkward situation, as news of support for Lithuanians from Western democracies started to appear. Further problems surfaced in Riga, Latvia, on 20 and 21 January, where OMON (special Ministry of the Interior) troops killed 4 people. Archie Brown suggests that Gorbachev's response this time was better, condemning the rogue action, sending his condolences and suggesting that secession could take place if it went through the procedures outlined in the Soviet constitution. According to Gorbachev's aide, Shakhnazarov, Gorbachev was finally beginning to accept the inevitability of "losing" the Baltic republics, although he would try all political means to preserve the Union. Brown believes that this put him in "imminent danger" of being overthrown by hard-liners against the secession. [ 32 ] 
Gorbachev thus continued to draw up a new treaty of union which would have created a truly voluntary federation in an increasingly democratised Soviet Union. The new treaty was strongly supported by the Central Asian republics, who needed the economic power and markets of the Soviet Union to prosper. However, the more radical reformists, such as Russian SFSR President Boris Yeltsin, were increasingly convinced that a rapid transition to a market economy was required and were more than happy to contemplate the disintegration of the Soviet Union if that was required to achieve their aims. Nevertheless, a referendum on the future of the Soviet Union was held in March (with a referendum in Russia on the creation of a presidency), which returned an average of 76.4n the nine republics where it was taken, with a turnout of 80f the adult population. [ 32 ] Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Armenia, Georgia and Moldova did not participate. Following this, an April meeting at Novo-Ogarevo between Gorbachev and the heads of the nine republics issued a statement on speeding up the creation of a new Union treaty.
In May, a hardline newspaper published aArchitect amidst the Ruinsa, an open letter criticizing Yakovlev (often referred to as the "architect of perestroika ") which was signed by Gennady Zyuganov. Many also saw this publication as the start of a campaign to oust Gorbachev.
Meanwhile, on 12 June 1991 Boris Yeltsin was elected President of the Russian Federation by 57.3f the vote (with a turnout of 74 [ 10 ] 
The August 1991 coup [ edit ] 
Main article: 1991 Soviet coup d'Atat attempt 
In contrast to the reformers' moderate approach to the new treaty, the hard-line apparatchiks, still strong within the CPSU and military establishment, were completely opposed to anything which might lead to the break-up of the Soviet Union. On the eve of the treaty's signing, hardliners in the Soviet leadership, calling themselves the 'State Committee on the State of Emergency', launched the August coup in 1991 in an attempt to remove Gorbachev from power and prevent the signing of the new union treaty. Under the pretense that Gorbachev was ill, his vice president, Yanayev, took over as president. Gorbachev spent three days (19, 20, and 21 August) under house arrest at his dacha in the Crimea before being freed and restored to power. However, upon his return, Gorbachev found that neither union nor Russian power structures heeded his commands as support had swung over to Yeltsin, whose defiance had led to the coup's collapse.
Furthermore, Gorbachev was forced to fire large numbers of his Politburo and, in several cases, arrest them. Those arrested for high treason included the "Gang of Eight" that had led the coup, including Kryuchkov, Yazov, Pavlov and Yanayev. Pugo was found shot; and Akhromeyev, who had offered his assistance but was never implicated, was found hanging in his Kremlin office. Most of these men had been former allies of Gorbachev's or promoted by him, which drew fresh criticism.
Aftermath of the coup and the final collapse [ edit ] 
For all intents and purposes, the coup destroyed Gorbachev politically. On 24 August, he advised the Central Committee to dissolve, resigned as General Secretary and dissolved all party units within the government. Shortly afterward, the Supreme Soviet suspended all Party activities on Soviet territory. In effect, Communist rule in the Soviet Union had endedathus eliminating the only unifying force left in the country.
Gorbachev's hopes of a new Union were further hit when the Congress of People's Deputies dissolved itself on 5 September. Though Gorbachev and the representatives of eight republics (excluding Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia) signed an agreement on forming a new economic community on 18 October, events were overtaking him. [ 10 ] The Soviet Union collapsed with dramatic speed during the latter part of 1991, as one republic after another declared independence. By the fall, Gorbachev could no longer influence events outside of Moscow, and he was challenged even there by Yeltsin. Following the coup, Yeltsin suspended all CPSU activities on Russian territory and closed the Central Committee building at Staraya Square. He also ordered the Russian flag raised alongside the Soviet flag at the Kremlin. In the waning months of 1991, Russia began taking over what remained of the Soviet government, including the Kremlin.
With the country in a state of near-total collapse, Gorbachev's vision of a renewed union was effectively dealt a fatal blow by a Ukrainian referendum on 1 December, where the Ukrainian people overwhelmingly voted for independence. Ukraine had been the second most powerful republic in the Soviet Union after Russia, and its secession ended any realistic chance of the Soviet Union staying united even on a limited scale. The presidents of Russia, Ukraine and Belarus met in Belovezh Forest, near Brest, Belarus, on 8 December and signed the Belavezha Accords, which declared the Soviet Union had ceased to exist and formed the Commonwealth of Independent States as its successor. Gorbachev initially denounced this move as illegal. [ 10 ] 
However, on 12 December, the RSFSR Supreme Soviet ratified the Belevezha Accords and denounced the 1922 Union Treaty. It was now apparent that the momentum towards dissolution could not be stopped. Shortly after the RSFSR ratified the Accords, Gorbachev hinted that he was considering stepping aside. [ 33 ] On 17 December, he accepted the fait accompli and reluctantly agreed with Yeltsin to dissolve the Soviet Union. [ 10 ] Four days later, the leaders of 11 of the 12 remaining republicsaall except Georgia (the Baltic states had already seceded in August)--signed the Alma-Ata Protocol which formally established the CIS. They also preemptively accepted Gorbachev's resignation. When Gorbachev learned what had transpired, he told CBS that he would resign as soon as he saw that the CIS was indeed a reality. [ 34 ] 
On the night of 25 December, in a nationally televised speech, Gorbachev announced his resignation as presidentaas he put it, "I hereby discontinue my activities at the post of President of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics." He declared the office extinct and handed over its functionsaincluding control of the Soviet nuclear codesato Yeltsin. The Soviet Union was formally dissolved the following day. Two days after Gorbachev left office, on 27 December, Yeltsin moved into Gorbachev's old office. [ 10 ] 
Gorbachev had aimed to maintain the CPSU as a united party but move it in the direction of Scandinavian-style social democracy. [ 35 ] But when the CPSU was proscribed after the August coup, Gorbachev was left with no effective power base beyond the armed forces. In the aftermath of the coup, his rival Yeltsin quickly worked to consolidate his hold on the Russian government as well as the remnants of the Soviet armed forces, paving the way for Gorbachev's downfall.
Post-presidency [ edit ] 
Gorbachev (left) with former Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney and former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher at the funeral of Ronald Reagan, 11 June 2004 
Following his resignation and the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Gorbachev remained active in Russian politics. During the early years of the post-Soviet era, he expressed criticism at the reforms carried out by Russian president Boris Yeltsin. When Yeltsin called a referendum for 25 April 1993 in an attempt to achieve even greater powers as president, Gorbachev did not vote and instead called for new presidential elections. [ 36 ] 
Following a failed run for the presidency in 1996, Gorbachev established the Social Democratic Party of Russia, a union between several Russian social democratic parties. He resigned as party leader in May 2004 following a disagreement with the party's chairman over the direction taken in the 2003 election campaign. The party was later banned in 2007 by the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation due to its failure to establish local offices with at least 500 members in the majority of Russian regions, which is required by Russian law for a political organization to be listed as a party. [ 37 ] Later that year, Gorbachev founded a new political party, called the Union of Social Democrats. [ 3 ] In June 2004, he represented Russia at the funeral of Ronald Reagan.
Gorbachev appeared in numerous media channels after his resignation from office. In 1993, he appeared as himself in the Wim Wenders film Faraway, So Close! , the sequel to Wings of Desire . In 1997, Gorbachev appeared with his granddaughter Anastasia in an internationally screened television commercial for Pizza Hut. [ 38 ] The U.S. corporation's payment for the 60-second ad went to Gorbachev's non-profit Gorbachev Foundation. [ 39 ] In 2007, French luxury brand Louis Vuitton announced that Gorbachev would be shown in an ad campaign for their signature luggage. In February 2014, during the winter Olympic Games held in Sochi, Russia, 82-year-old Gorbachev made a rare appearance on The Daily Show with Jon Stewart in a segment where he was tracked down and interviewed by comedic correspondent Jason Jones on location from Moscow. [ 40 ] 
Following Boris Yeltsin's death on 23 April 2007, Gorbachev released a eulogy for him, stating that Yeltsin was to be commended for assuming the "difficult task of leading the nation into the post-Soviet era", and "on whose shoulders are both great deeds for the country and serious errors". [ 41 ] 
On 16 June 2009, Gorbachev announced that he had recorded an album of old Russian romantic ballads entitled Songs for Raisa to raise money for a charity dedicated to his late wife. On the album, he sings the songs himself accompanied by Russian musician Andrei Makarevich. [ 42 ] 
Since his resignation, Gorbachev has remained involved in world affairs. He founded the Gorbachev Foundation in 1992, headquartered in San Francisco. He later founded Green Cross International, with which he was one of three major sponsors of the Earth Charter. He also became a member of the Club of Rome and the Club of Madrid, an independent non-profit organization composed of 81 democratic former presidents and Prime Ministers from 57 different countries.
In the decade that followed the Cold War, Gorbachev opposed both the U.S.-led NATO bombing of Yugoslavia in 1999 and the U.S.-led Iraq War in 2003. On 27 July 2007, Gorbachev criticized U.S. foreign policy: aWhat has followed are unilateral actions, what has followed are wars, what has followed is ignoring the UN Security Council, ignoring international law and ignoring the will of the people, even the American peoplea, he said. [ 43 ] That same year, he visited New Orleans, a city hard-hit by Hurricane Katrina, and promised he would return in 2011 to personally lead a local revolution if the U.S. government had not repaired the levees by that time. He said that revolutionary action should be a last resort. [ 44 ] 
Gorbachev (right) being introduced to Barack Obama by Joe Biden, 20 March 2009 
Concerning the 2008 South Ossetia war, started by a Georgian attack on Tskhinvali, the capital of pro-Russian South Ossetia, [ 45 ] in a 12 August 2008 op-ed essay in The Washington Post , Gorbachev criticized the United States' support for Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili and for moving to bring the Caucasus into the sphere of its national interest. [ 46 ] He later said the following:
Russia did not want this crisis. The Russian leadership is in a strong enough position domestically; it did not need a little victorious war. Russia was dragged into the fray by the recklessness of the Georgian president, Mikheil Saakashvili...The decision by the Russian president, Dmitri Medvedev, to now cease hostilities was the right move by a responsible leader. The Russian president acted calmly, confidently and firmly...The planners of this campaign clearly wanted to make sure that, whatever the outcome, Russia would be blamed for worsening the situation. The West then mounted a propaganda attack against Russia, with the American news media leading the way". [ 47 ] 
In September 2008, Gorbachev announced he would make a comeback to Russian politics along with a former KGB officer, Alexander Lebedev. [ 48 ] Their party is known as the Independent Democratic Party of Russia. He also is part owner of the opposition newspaper Novaya Gazeta . [ 49 ] 
On 20 March 2009, Gorbachev met with United States President Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden in efforts to "reset" strained relations between Russia and the United States.
On 27 March 2009, Gorbachev visited Eureka College, Illinois, which is the alma mater of former U.S. President Ronald Reagan with whom he had negotiated historic nuclear arms reduction treaties. Gorbachev toured the Reagan Museum on campus, met with students, and spoke at a convocation in the Reagan Center; he then traveled to the nearby Peoria Civic Center in Peoria, Illinois, as the keynote speaker at the combined George Washington/Ronald Reagan Day Dinner where college president J.David Arnold named him an Honorary Reagan Fellow of Eureka College. [ 50 ] 
To commemorate the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, Gorbachev accompanied former Polish leader Lech WaAAsa and German Chancellor Angela Merkel at a celebration in Berlin on 9 November 2009. [ 51 ] 
On 7 June 2010, Gorbachev gave an interview before "almost an annual pilgrimage" to London for a summer gala to raise money for the Raisa Gorbachev Foundation, which funds cancer care for children. The clinic in St.Petersburg can house 80 child patients.
From the interview: "Her death, after several years of ill-health, left Gorbachev bereft. He lives in Moscow, has not remarried and finds solace with his daughter and grand-daughters. He would not be coaxed to talk about Raisa, except fleetingly in the context of the charity." [ 52 ] 
Gorbachev has defended the referendum that led to Russia's annexation of Crimea in March 2014: "While Crimea had previously been joined to Ukraine [in 1954] based on the Soviet laws, which means [Communist] party laws, without asking the people, now the people themselves have decided to correct that mistake." [ 53 ] 
On 10 October 2014 it was reported that Gorbachev was in hospital and in deteriorating health. [ 54 ] 
However, he reported granted an interview with Russian state newspaper "Rossijskaja Gazeta" on October 16, opining on the Ukraine crisis and calling for a repeal of the sanctions. Thursday [ 55 ] 
Criticism of Vladimir Putin [ edit ] 
Inauguration of Vladimir Putin, 7 May 2000 
Although he has credited Vladimir Putin for stabilizing Russia in the aftermath of the initial and turbulent years of the post-Soviet era, Gorbachev has become critical of both Putin and Dmitry Medvedev since at least March 2011. [ 56 ] His main grievances about the "tandem" are backsliding on democracy, corruption, and the dominance of security officers. Gorbachev is also dissatisfied by the fact that he has not been allowed to register his social democratic party. [ 57 ] 
When being interviewed by the BBC to reflect on the 20th anniversary of the August Coup, Gorbachev again announced his dissatisfaction with the policies and rule of Putin. Speaking of the status of democracy in the Russian Federation, he proclaimed: "The electoral system we had was nothing remarkable but they have literally castrated it". Gorbachev also stated that he believed that Putin should not have sought a third term as the Russian president in 2012. [ 58 ] 
In response to the 2011 Russian protests as a result of United Russia's controversial victory in the Russian legislative election, 2011, he called on the authorities to hold a new election, citing electoral irregularities and ballot box stuffing. [ 59 ] 
In a political lecture delivered to the RIA-Novosti news agency in April 2013, Gorbachev decried Putin's retreat from democracy, noting that in Russia "politics is increasingly turning into imitation democracy" with "all power in the hands of the executive branch". Gorbachev addressed Putin directly, stating that "to go further on the path of tightening the screws, having laws that limit the rights and freedoms of people, attacking the news media and organizations of civil society, is a destructive path with no future". [ 60 ] 
Call for global restructuring [ edit ] 
Gorbachev calls for a kind of perestroika or restructuring of societies around the world, starting in particular with that of the United States, because he is of the view that the late-2000s financial crisis shows that the Washington Consensus economic model is a failure that will sooner or later have to be replaced. According to Gorbachev, countries that have rejected the Washington Consensus and the International Monetary Fund approach to economic development, such as Brazil and China, have done far better economically on the whole and achieved far fairer results for the average citizen than countries that have accepted it. [ 61 ] 
Gorbachev is also a member of the Club of Madrid, a group of more than 80 former leaders of democratic countries, which works to strengthen democratic governance and leadership. [ 62 ] 
Honours and accolades [ edit ] 
Former President of the United States Ronald Reagan awards Gorbachev the first ever Ronald Reagan Freedom Award at the Reagan Library, 4 May 1992 
Soviet Union and Russia decorations [ edit ] 
Order of St. Andrew (2011), the highest state decoration of Russia, awarded for work during USSR leadership, Order of Honour (2001), Order of Lenin (1971, 1973, 1981), Order of October Revolution (1978), Order of the Badge of Honour (1966), Order of the Red Banner of Labour (1947). He was awarded when he was only 16 and was one of the youngest recipients of the award., Medal "For Labour Valour", Medal "For Strengthening Military Cooperation", Medal "In Commemoration of the 1500th Anniversary of Kiev", Jubilee Medal "Forty Years of Victory in the Great Patriotic War 1941-1945", . 
Foreign decorations and awards [ edit ] 
In 1987, Gorbachev was awarded the Indira Gandhi Prize from Government of India, In 1989, Gorbachev was awarded the Otto Hahn Peace Medal in Gold of the United Nations Association of Germany (DGVN) in Berlin for "his contributions to nuclear disarmament of the great powers and the creation of a fundamentally new political order in Europe"., In 1990, Gorbachev was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for "his leading role in the peace process which today characterizes important parts of the international community". [ 63 ] , On 4 May 1992, Gorbachev was awarded the first ever Ronald Reagan Freedom Award at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, California. [ 64 ] , On 6 May 1992, Gorbachev was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from Westminster College in Fulton, Missouri. [ 65 ] , In 1993 Gorbachev was awarded a Legum Doctor, honoris causa from Carleton University in Ottawa, Canada. He was also given an honorary degree from The University of Calgary in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. [ 66 ] In the same year, he was conferred with the Freedom of the City of Aberdeen., . Gorbachev on 12 March 2013 Gorbachev was the 1994 recipient of the Grawemeyer Award for ideas improving world order, awarded by the University of Louisville, Kentucky. [ 67 ] , In 1995, Gorbachev received an Honorary Doctorate from Durham University, County Durham, England for his contribution to "the cause of political tolerance and an end to Cold War-style confrontation". [ 68 ] [ 69 ] , For his historic role in the evolution of glasnost , and for his leadership in the disarmament negotiations with the United States during the Reagan administration, Gorbachev was awarded the Courage of Conscience award 20 October 1996. [ 70 ] , In 1998, Gorbachev received the Freedom Award from the National Civil Rights Museum in Memphis, Tennessee. [ 71 ] , In 2002, Gorbachev received an honorary degree of a Doctor in Laws (LL.D.) "in recognition of his political service and contribution to peace" from Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland. [ 72 ] , Gorbachev, together with Bill Clinton and Sophia Loren, were awarded the 2004 Grammy Award for Best Spoken Word Album for Children for their recording of Sergei Prokofiev's Peter and the Wolf ., In 2005, Gorbachev was awarded the Point Alpha Prize for his role in supporting German reunification. He also received an honorary doctorate from the University of MAnster., [ 73 ] , In 2011, Gorbachev was awarded a honoris causa doctorate from University of LiAge in LiAge, Belgium. [ 74 ] , . 
Attitude to religion [ edit ] 
At the end of a November 1996 interview on C-SPAN's Booknotes , Gorbachev described his plans for future books. He made the following reference to God: "I don't know how many years God will be giving me, [or] what His plans are".
In 2005, he said that Pope John PaulII's "devotion to his followers is a remarkable example to all of us" following the pontiff's death. "What can I sayait must have been the will of God. He acted really courageously." [ 75 ] In a 1989 meeting, he had told him "We appreciate your mission on this high pulpit, we are convinced that it will leave a great mark on history." [ 76 ] 
Gorbachev was the recipient of the Athenagoras Humanitarian Award of the Order of St.Andrew Archons of the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople on 20 November 2005. [ 77 ] 
In 2013 the Lubbock Avalanche-Journal reported a 1992 meeting between Gorbachev and Otis Gatewood, a Christian minister sent with a relief effort for orphans and elderly people in Russia by Churches of Christ in Texas. In the meeting, Gorbachev reportedly claimed that he was "indeed a Christian and had been baptized by his grandfather in the Volga River many years before". [ 78 ] 
On 19 March 2008, during a surprise visit to pray at the tomb of Saint Francis in Assisi, Italy, Gorbachev made an announcement which has been interpreted to the effect that he was a Christian. Gorbachev stated that "St Francis is, for me, the alter Christus , another Christ. His story fascinates me and has played a fundamental role in my life". He added, "It was through St Francis that I arrived at the Church, so it was important that I came to visit his tomb". [ 79 ] 
A few days later, however, he reportedly told the Russian news agency Interfax, "Over the last few days some media have been disseminating fantasiesaI can't use any other wordaabout my secret Catholicism, [...] To sum up and avoid any misunderstandings, let me say that I have been and remain an atheist". [ 80 ] 
Port-wine birthmark [ edit ] 
The prominent crimson port-wine stain birthmark on Gorbachev's forehead was the source of much attention from critics and cartoonists. Though some suggested that he might have the mark surgically removed, Gorbachev opted not to, as once he was publicly known to have the mark, he believed it would be perceived as his being more concerned with his appearance than other more important issues. [ 81 ] 
See also [ edit ] 
April 9 Tragedy a Soviet crackdown on Georgian protests in 1989, Black Januarya Soviet crackdown on Azeri protests in 1990, Index of Soviet Union-related articles, List of peace activists, Sergei M. Plekhanov a former Gorbachev advisor on the United States and Canada, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ Gray, Sadie (30 September 2008). "Gorbachev launches political party with Russian billionaire". The Guardian (UK) . Retrieved 1 October 2008 . , ^ "Mikhail Gorbachev will found new political party". mosnews.com. 13 May 2009 . Retrieved 13 June 2009 . , ^ a b "Gorbachev sets up Russia movement". BBC News. 20 October 2007 . Retrieved 20 October 2007 . , ^ Mikhail Sergeevich Gorbachev, Daisaku Ikeda (2005). " Moral lessons of twentieth century: Gorbachev and Ikeda on Buddhism and Communism ". I.B.Tauris. p. 11. ISBN 1-85043-976-1 , ^ Mikhail Sergeevich Gorbachev (2006). " Manifesto for the Earth: action now for peace, global justice and a sustainable future ". CLAIRVIEW BOOKS. p.10. ISBN 1-905570-02-3 , ^ Mikhail Gorbachev (2000). Gorbachev: On My Country and the World . George Shriver (Translator). New York: Columbia University Press. p.20. ISBN978-0-231-11515-5. , ^ a b "Biography of Mikhail Gorbachev". The Gorbachev Foundation . Retrieved 13 January 2012 . , ^ "Raisa Gorbachyova's Biography on the Gorbachyov Foundation website". , ^ a b c d e Current Biography, 1985 . New York: The H. W. Wilson Co. 1985. , ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x Gorbachev, M. S., Memoirs , 1996 (London: Bantam Books) , ^ a b c d e "Mikhail Gorbachev". EncyclopAdia Britannica . Retrieved 2 April 2009 . , ^ Roxburgh, Angus (1991). The Second Russian Revolution: The Struggle for Power in the Kremlin . London: BBC Books. , ^ a b c Union of Soviet Socialist Republics at Encyclopedia Britannica , ^ "Mikhail Gorbachev Biography: Glasnost, Perestroika, and Leadership". American Academy of Achievement. 1 February 2005 . Retrieved 2 April 2009 . , ^ Oliver, Michael J.; Aldcroft, Derek Howard (2007). Economic Disasters of the Twentieth Century . Edward Elgar Publishing. p.294. ISBN978-1840645897. , ^ "DDNDDD DDNDDDDDN DDNDDNND (Mikhail SergeyeviAh GorbaAhAv)". Archontology.org. 27 March 2009 . Retrieved 3 April 2009 . , ^ Chiesa, Giulietto (1991). Time of change: an insider's view of Russia's transformation . I.B.Tauris. p.30. , ^ Hosking, Geoffrey Alan (1991). The awakening of the Soviet Union . Harvard University Press. p.139. , ^ English, R., D, Russia and the Idea of the West: Gorbachev, Intellectuals and the End of the Cold War , 2000 (Columbia University Press) , ^ a b Hough, Jerry F. (1997), pp. 124a125 , ^ Bialer, Seweryn, and Joan Afferica. "The Genesis of Gorbachev's World", Foreign Affairs 64, no. 3 (1985): 605a644. , ^ a b Kishlansky, Mark (2001), p. 322 , ^ Sebetsyen, Victor (2009). Revolution 1989: The Fall of the Soviet Empire . New York City: Pantheon Books. ISBN0-375-42532-2. , ^ "Gorbachev becomes Soviet leader". BBC News. March 1985 . Retrieved 22 May 2006 . , ^ a b Matlock, J. F. Jr., Reagan and Gorbachev: How the Cold War Ended , 2004 , ^ "Reuters, Moscow could have started WW3 over Berlin Wall: Gorbachev by Guy Faulconbridge". Reuters. 3 November 2009 . Retrieved 11 July 2009 . , ^ Coit D. Blacker. "The Collapse of Soviet Power in Europe", Foreign Affairs 1990. , ^ Steele, Jonathan. Eternal Russia: Yeltsin, Gorbachev and the Mirage of Democracy (Boston: Faber, 1994). , ^ "CIAa The World Factbooka Armenia" . Retrieved 27 January 2007 . , ^ DR Radio reported 12/01 in its news broadcast on P3 at 13:00 hrs that the Ultimatum required a reply within three days. , ^ Boltunov, M., Alfaa Sverkhsekretnyi Otryad KGB [Alphaa The KGB's Top-Secret Unit] , 1992, (Moscow: Kedr) , ^ a b c Archie Brown, The Gorbachev Factor , 1996, (New York: Oxford University Press). ISBN 0-19-288052-7 , ^ Clines, Francis X. "Gorbachev is Ready to Resign as Post-Soviet Plan Advances", New York Times , 13 December 1991. , ^ Clines, Francis X., "11 Soviet States Form Commonwealth Without Clearly Defining Its Powers", New York Times , 22 December 1991 , ^ Klein, Naomi (2008). The Shock Doctrine: The Rise of Disaster Capitalism. Picador. ISBN 0312427999 p. 276 , ^ Maurizio Giuliano, MAssen schnell wAhlen (interview), Profil , nr. 19. 10 May 1993, page 61 , ^ Mosnews.com [ dead link ] , ^ aa (1 April 2006). "Pizza Huta Gorbachev". YouTube . Retrieved 3 November 2010 . , ^ Mikhail Gorbachev appears in Pizza Hut advertising campaign , PR Newswire , 23 December 1997. Retrieved 3 August 2007., ^ " ' The Daily Show' Scores An Interview With Gorbachev" . Retrieved 29 October 2014 . , ^ "Ex-Russian Leader Boris Yeltsin Dies". CBS News . 23 April 2007. , ^ Odynova, Alexandra (19 June 2009). "Former Soviet Leader Gorbachev Records Album". Saint Petersburg Times . Retrieved 20 June 2009 . , ^ "Gorbachev says U.S. is sowing world adisordera". MSNBC . Retrieved 4 August 2007 . , ^ Pitney, Nico. "Gorbachev Vows Revolution If New Orleans Levees Don't Improve". Huffington Post . Retrieved 14 September 2007 . , ^ Georgia 'started unjustified war', BBC News, 30 September 2009 , ^ Gorbachev, Mikhail (12 August 2008). "A Path to Peace in the Caucasus". The Washington Post . Retrieved 12 August 2008 . , ^ Gorbachev, Mikhail, "Russia Never Wanted a War", New York Times , 19 August 2008, Retrieved on 2011-12-09. , ^ Blomfield, Adrian (29 September 2008). "Mikhail Gorbachev returns to Russian politics". The Daily Telegraph (UK) . Retrieved 3 November 2010 . , ^ "DDDDDDD D DDNDDNDD NNDDD NDDDDDDDNNDDD DDDDD DDDDNN". grani.ru. 7 June 2006. , ^ Morss, Gina, Gorbachev Visits Eureka College , WEEK News 25 , retrieved 24 March 2009 , ^ Kulish, Nicholas and Dempsey, Judy (9 November 2009), Leaders in Berlin Retrace the Walk West , New York Times , ^ "Mikhail Gorbachev: Russia's elder statesman still at home with power". The Independent (London). 7 June 2010 . Retrieved 19 August 2011 . , ^ "Mikhail Gorbachev hails Crimea annexation to Russia". United Press International. 18 March 2014. , ^ "Mikhail Gorbachev reportedly 'fighting for his life' as health deteriorates in hospital". The Independent . Retrieved 29 October 2014 . , ^ "Former Soviet leader Gorbachev warns against anew Cold Wara in Ukraine crisis - News - DW.DE - 16.10.2014". DW.DE . Retrieved 29 October 2014 . , ^ "Mikhail Gorbachev says Putin should not run for Russian presidency again", Christian Science Monitor (2 March 2011). Retrieved 9 December 2011. , ^ DDNDDD DDNDDNDD a DND "DNNDDDNDN" D "NNDDN DDNDDD DDDDD" (DDDDD). DDDDD DDDDDDD. 15 February 2011. Svobodanews.ru. Retrieved 9 December 2011. , ^ "Gorbachev says Putin 'castrated' democracy in Russia". BBC News. 18 August 2011 . Retrieved 18 August 2011 . , ^ "UPDATE 1-Russian police block new anti-Putin rally", Reuters (5 December 2011). Retrieved 9 December 2011. , ^ "Gorbachev takes aim at Putin, praises protesters". 13 April 2013 . Retrieved 7 May 2013 . , ^ Mikhail Gorbachev, "We Had Our Perestroika. It's High Time for Yours", Washington Post , 7 June 2009. , ^ "Mikhail Gorbachev Club de Madrid". Clubmadrid.org . Retrieved 19 November 2012 . , ^ "The Nobel Peace Prize 1990". Nobelprize.org. 15 October 1990 . Retrieved 3 November 2010 . , ^ Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation and Library at the Wayback Machine (archived 10 June 2008) , ^ "National Churchill Museum Mikhail Gorbachev Lecture at the National Churchill Museum". Churchillmemorial.org. 6 May 1992 . Retrieved 19 November 2012 . , ^ Wark, Andrew (18 September 2000). "Mikhail Gorbachev to present U of C public lecture" (Press release). University of Calgary . Retrieved 10 September 2013 . , ^ "1994- Mikhail Gorbachev". , ^ Honorary Degrees. dur.ac.uk , ^ "Minutes of the Council Meeting". Durham University . Retrieved 8 September 2011 . , ^ "The Peace Abbey Courage of Conscience Recipients List". Peaceabbey.org. 20 November 2005. Archived from the original on 16 February 2008 . Retrieved 3 November 2010 . , ^ http://www.civilrightsmuseum.org/Freedom-Awards-Winners.aspx#sthash.eEo0oFeS.dpbs , ^ "Trinity College Honours Mikhail Gorbachev". Tcd.ie . Retrieved 3 November 2010 . , ^ "Reunification Politicians Accept Prize". Deutsche Welle . Retrieved 22 May 2006 . , ^ "UniversitA de LiAge - Mikhail Gorbachev, a ULg Honorary Doctorate". ULg . Retrieved 29 October 2014 . , ^ "Gorbachev: Pope was 'example to all of us ' ". CNN. 4 April 2005 . Retrieved 3 November 2010 . , ^ "Record of Conversation between M.S. Gorbachev and John Paul II" (PDF) . Retrieved 3 November 2010 . , ^ "Athenagoras humanitarian award to Nobel Peace Prize laureate Mikhail Gorbachev", goarch.org. 2 November 2005 , ^ Westbrook, Ray (1 April 2013). "Otis Gatewood helped rebuild Germany with God's word, supplies". Lubbock Avalanche-Journal (Lubbock, Texas). pp.A1, A5 . Retrieved 7 April 2013 . , ^ Moore, Malcolm (19 March 2008). "Mikhail Gorbachev admits he is a Christian". The Daily Telegraph (London) . Retrieved 24 March 2008 . , ^ "Gorbachev a closet Christian?". Chicago Tribune . 23 March 2008 . Retrieved 24 March 2008 . [ dead link ] , ^ "den 11. time". 24 October 2007. Danmarks Radio. DR 2 . http://www.dr.dk/odp/player.aspx?guid=D7C084E0-19DB-4131-8FB0-347755C011A7 and surl=http://www.dr.dk/Forms/Published/PlaylistGen.aspx?qid=523179&odp=true and mt=programstab and furl=default.aspx?template=programserie&guid=3975AA2F-D06B-4A99-BD9B-99BE197DB000&autoplay=1&back=default.aspx%3ftemplate%3dprogrammer and skin=default and template=se_seneste and guid=3975AA2F-D06B-4A99-BD9B-99BE197DB000 . , Further reading [ edit ] 
Gorbachev, Mikhail. Memoirs . Doubleday (1995). ISBN 0-385-40668-1, Cline, Ray S. Behind the Smile Are Teeth of Iron: 86 Photos and Illustrations [which] Few People in America Have Ever Seen . Washington, D.C.: United States Global Strategy Council, 1989. Without ISBN, Wilson, James Graham (2014). The Triumph of Improvisation: Gorbachev's Adaptability, Reagan's Engagement, and the End of the Cold War . Ithaca: Cornell University Press. ISBN0801452295. , . 
External links [ edit ] 
, Wikiquote has quotations related to: Mikhail Gorbachev , Wikimedia Commons has media related to Mikhail Gorbachev ., The Gorbachev Foundation, Green Cross International, Gorbachev 80th Birthday Gala Celebration - Royal Albert Hall London, 30 March 2011, Appearances on C-SPAN, Column and op-ed archives at The Guardian , Mikhail Gorbachev collected news and commentary at The Guardian , Mikhail Gorbachev collected news and commentary at The New York Times , . Interviews and articles Commanding Heights: Mikhail Gorbachev (PBS interview), April 2001, Ubben Lecture at DePauw University - October 2005, "Gorbachev on 1989" a interview by The Nation , September 2009, "Gorbachev's Legacy Examined", 25 Years After His Rise To Power - March 2010, "Chernobyl 25 years later: Many lessons learned" - article by Mikhail Gorbachev published in the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, March 2011, . 
Party political offices Precededby
Konstantin Chernenko , General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union 
1985a1991, Succeededby
Vladimir Ivashko (Acting) , Political offices Precededby
Andrei Gromyko
as Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet , Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet (1988a1989)
Chairman of the Supreme Soviet (1989a1990)
President of the Soviet Union (1990a1991) 
1988a1991, Succeededby
Office abolished , Awards and achievements Precededby
Award created , Recipient of The Ronald Reagan Freedom Award 
1992, Succeededby
Colin Powell , v , t , e , . Politics of the Soviet Union 1964a1985 ("Era of Stagnation") , Events 1964a1982 Collective leadership, Glassboro Summit Conference, Prague Spring, Invasion of Czechoslovakia, 1968 Red Square demonstration, Brezhnev Doctrine, Brezhnev assassination attempt, Sino-Soviet border conflict, DAtente, Vladivostok Summit, Helsinki Accords, 1977 Moscow bombings, 1977 Soviet Constitution, 1978 Georgian demonstrations, War in Afghanistan, 1980 Summer Olympics, Reaction to 1980a1981 Polish crisis, Exercise Zapad, Death and state funeral of Leonid Brezhnev, Legacy of Leonid Brezhnev, . , Events 1982a1985 RYAN, Korean Air Lines Flight 007, 1983 false nuclear alarm incident, Able Archer 83, 1984 Summer Olympics boycott, Friendship Games, . , Politburo members
22nd , 23rd , 24th , 25th , 26th , . Aliyev, Andropov, Brezhnev, Chebrikov, Chernenko, Demichev, Dolgikh, Efremov, Gorbachev , Grechko, Grishin, Gromyko, Kirilenko, Kiselyov, Konayev, Kosygin, Kulakov, Kuznetsov, Masherov, Mazurov, Mikoyan, Mzhavanadze, PelAe, Podgorny, Polyansky, Ponomarev, Rashidov, Romanov, Shcherbytsky, Shelepin, Shelest, Shevardnadze, Shvernik, Solomentsev, Suslov, Tikhonov, Ustinov, Voronov, Vorotnikov, . , Leaders The Troika (Brezhnev, Kosygin, Podgorny), Yuri Andropov, Konstantin Chernenko, . , Governments Kosygin's 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, Tikhonov's 1st, 2nd, . , National economy 
Reforms 1965, 1973, 1979, Food Programme, 1984, . , Five-Year Plans 8th Plan, 9th Plan, 10th Plan, 11th Plan, . , Brezhnev's family Churbanov (son-in-law), Galina (daughter), Lyubov (niece), Viktoria (wife), Yakov (brother), Yuri (son), . , Soviet Union portal , v , t , e , . History of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union , Organization Congress, Conference, General Secretary, Politburo, Secretariat, Orgburo, Central Committee, Control Commission, Auditing Commission, Komsomol, Young Pioneers, Pravda , . , Congress 1st (1898), 2nd (1903), 3rd (1905), 4th (1906), 5th (1907), 6th (1917), 7th (1918), 8th (1919), 9th (1920), 10th (1921), 11th (1922), 12th (1923), 13th (1924), 14th (1925), 15th (1927), 16th (1930), 17th (1934), 18th (1939), 19th (1952), 20th (1956), 21st (1959), 22nd (1961), 23rd (1966), 24th (1971), 25th (1976), 26th (1981), 27th (1986), 28th (1990), . , Conference 1st (1905), 2nd (1906), 3rd (August 1907), 4th (November 1907), 5th (1908), 6th (1912), 7th (1917), 8th (1919), 9th (1920), 10th (May 1921), 11th (December 1921), 12th (1922), 13th (1924), 14th (1925), 15th (1926), 16th (1929), 17th (1932), 18th (1941), 19th (1988), . , Party leadership 
General/First
Secretaries Vladimir Lenin (1912a24), Joseph Stalin (1929a53), Nikita Khrushchev (1953a64), Leonid Brezhnev (1964a82), Yuri Andropov (1982a84), Konstantin Chernenko (1984a85), Mikhail Gorbachev (1985a91), . , Politburo Aug.aOct. 1917, Oct.aDec. 1917, 6th (1917a18), 7th (1918a19), 8th (1919a20), 9th (1920a21), 10th (1921a22), 11th (1922a23), 12th (1923a24), 13th (1924a25), 14th (1926a27), 15th (1927a30), 16th (1930a34), 17th (1934a39), 18th (1939a52), 19th (1952a56), 20tha21st (1956a61), 22nd (1961a66), 23rd (1966a71), 24th (1971a76), 25th (1976a81), 26th (1981a86), 27th (1986a90), 28th (1990a91), . , Secretariat 6th (1917a18), 7th (1918a19), 8th (1919a20), 9th (1920a21), 10th (1921a22), 11th (1922a23), 12th (1923a24), 13th (1924a25), 14th (1926a27), 15th (1927a30), 16th (1930a34), 17th (1934a39), 18th (1939a52), 19th (1952a56), 20tha21st (1956a61), 22nd (1961a66), 23rd (1966a71), 24th (1971a76), 25th (1976a81), 26th (1981a86), 27th (1986a90), 28th (1990a91), . , Orgburo 7th (Jan.aMar. 1919), 8th (1919a20), 9th (1920a21), 10th (1921a22), 11th (1922a23), 12th (1923a24), 13th (1924a26), 14th (1926a27), 15th (1927a30), 16th (1930a34), 17th (1934a39), 18th (1939a52), . , Central
Committee 1sta3rd (1898a05), 4th (1906a07), 5th (1907a17), 6th (1917a18), 7th (1918a19), 8th (1919a20), 9th (1920a21), 10th (1921a22), 11th (1922a23), 12th (1923a24), 13th (1924a26), 14th (1926a27), 15th (1927a30), 16th (1930a34), 17th (1934a39), 18th (1939a52), 19th (1952a56), 20tha21st (1956a61), 22nd (1961a66), 23rd (1966a71), 24th (1971a76), 25th (1976a81), 26th (1981a86), 27th (1986a90), 28th (1990a91), . , Departments of the
Central Committee Administrative Organs, Agriculture, Chemical Industry, Construction, Culture, Defence Industry, Foreign Cadres, General, Heavy Industry, Information, International, Light- and Food Industry, Machine Industry, Organisational-party Work, Planning and Financial Organs, Political Administration of the Ministry of Defence, Propaganda, Science and Education, Trade and Consumers' Services, Transportation-Communications, . , Republican branches Armenia, Azerbaijan, Byelorussia, Bukhara, Estonia, Georgia, Karelo-Finland, Kazakhstan, Khorezm, Kirghizia, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldavia, Russia, Tajikistan, Transcaucasia, Turkestan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, . , v , t , e , . Heads of state of the Soviet Union , Heads of state Kalinin (1922a1946), Shvernik (1946a1953), Voroshilov (1953a1960), Brezhnev (1960a1964), Mikoyan (1964a1965), Podgorny (1965a1977), Brezhnev (1977a1982), Andropov (1982a1984), Chernenko (1984a1985), Gromyko (1985a1988), Gorbachev (1988a1991), . , Vice heads of state Kuznetsov (1977a1986), Demichev (1986a1988), Lukyanov (1988a1990), Yanayev (1990a1991), . , Presidents of Russian SFSR , Presidents of Russia , . , v , t , e , . Leaders of the ruling parties of the Eastern Bloc , Communist Party of the Soviet Union , . Vladimir Lenin, Joseph Stalin, Nikita Khrushchev, Leonid Brezhnev, Yuri Andropov, Konstantin Chernenko, Mikhail Gorbachev , . , Party of Labour of Albania Enver Hoxha, Ramiz Alia, . , Bulgarian Communist Party Georgi Dimitrov, Valko Chervenkov, Todor Zhivkov, Petar Mladenov, . , Communist Party of Czechoslovakia Klement Gottwald, AntonAn Novotny, Alexander DubAek, GustAv HusAk, MiloA JakeA, Karel UrbAnek, Ladislav Adamec, . , Socialist Unity Party of Germany Walter Ulbricht, Erich Honecker, Egon Krenz, . , Hungarian Working People's Party
Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party MAtyAs RAkosi, ErnA GerA, JAnos KAdAr, KAroly GrAsz, RezsA Nyers, . , Polish United Workers' Party WAadysAaw GomuAka, BolesAaw Bierut, Edward Ochab, WAadysAaw GomuAka, Edward Gierek, StanisAaw Kania, Wojciech Jaruzelski, MieczysAaw Rakowski, . , Romanian Communist Party Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej, Nicolae CeauEescu, . , League of Communists of Yugoslavia Milan GorkiA, Josip Broz Tito, (1980a1990, rotating leadership) , . , v , t , e , . Revolutions of 1989 , Internal background Era of Stagnation, Communism, Anti-communism, Criticism of communism, Eastern Bloc, Eastern Bloc economies, Eastern Bloc politics, Eastern Bloc information dissemination, Eastern Bloc emigration and defection, KGB, Nomenklatura, Shortage economy, Totalitarianism, Eastern European Anti-Communist Insurgencies, . , International background Active measures, Cold War, List of socialist states, Predictions of Soviet collapse, Reagan Doctrine, Soviet imperialism, Terrorism and the Soviet Union, Vatican Opposition, Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia, . , Reforms Socialism with Chinese characteristics, Perestroika, Glasnost, Democratisation in the Soviet Union, Sinatra Doctrine, Doi Moi, . , Government leaders Ramiz Alia, Nicolae CeauAescu, Mikhail Gorbachev , KAroly GrAsz, Erich Honecker, JAnos KAdAr, MiloA JakeA, Egon Krenz, Wojciech Jaruzelski, Slobodan MiloAeviA, Mathieu KArAkou, Mengistu Haile Mariam, Ne Win, Denis Sassou Nguesso, Heng Samrin, Deng Xiaoping, Todor Zhivkov, Siad Barre, . , Opposition methods Civil resistance, Demonstrations, Human chains, Magnitizdat, Polish underground press, Protests, Samizdat, Strike action, . , Opposition leaders Lech WaAAsa, VAclav Havel, Alexander DubAek, Ion Iliescu, Wu'erkaixi, Chai Ling, Wang Dan, Feng Congde, Tank Man, Joachim Gauck, Sali Berisha, SanjaasArengiin Zorig, Vladimir Bukovsky, Boris Yeltsin, Viacheslav Chornovil, Vytautas Landsbergis, Zianon Pazniak, Zhelyu Zhelev, Aung San Suu Kyi, Meles Zenawi, Isaias Afewerki, . , Opposition movements Charter 77, New Forum, Civic Forum, Democratic Party of Albania, Democratic Russia, Initiative for Peace and Human Rights, SAjAdis, Peaceful Revolution, People's Movement of Ukraine, Solidarity, Popular Front of Latvia, Popular Front of Estonia, Public Against Violence, Belarusian Popular Front, National League for Democracy, National Salvation Front, Union of Democratic Forces, . , Events by location 
Central and Eastern Europe Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Soviet Union, Yugoslavia, . , Soviet Union Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Chechnya, Estonia, Georgia, Latvia, Lithuania, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikstan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, . , Elsewhere Afghanistan, Angola, Benin, Burma, Cambodia, China, Congo-Brazzaville, Ethiopia, Mongolia, Mozambique, Somalia, South Yemen, . , Individual events 1988 Polish strikes, April 9 tragedy, Black January, Baltic Way, Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, Removal of Hungary's border fence, Polish Round Table Agreement, Hungarian Round Table Talks, Pan-European Picnic, Monday Demonstrations, Alexanderplatz demonstration, Malta Summit, German reunification, January Events in Lithuania, January Events in Latvia, March 1991 protests in Belgrade, August Coup, Dissolution of the Soviet Union, . , Later events Colour revolution, Decommunization, Lustration, Democratization, Economic liberalization, Post-Soviet conflicts, Neo-Sovietism, Neo-Stalinism, Post-communism, Yugoslav Wars, . , v , t , e , . Cold War , USA , USSR , ANZUS, NATO, Non-Aligned Movement, SEATO, Warsaw Pact, . , 1940s Dekemvriana, Yalta Conference, Operation Unthinkable , Potsdam Conference, Gouzenko Affair, Operation Masterdom , Operation Beleaguer , Operation Blacklist Forty , Iran crisis of 1946, Greek Civil War, Corfu Channel incident, Turkish Straits crisis, Restatement of Policy on Germany, First Indochina War, Truman Doctrine, Asian Relations Conference, Marshall Plan, 1948 Czechoslovak coup d'Atat, TitoaStalin split, Berlin Blockade, Western betrayal, Iron Curtain, Eastern Bloc, Western Bloc, Chinese Civil War (Second round), Malayan Emergency, . , 1950s Bamboo Curtain, Korean War, 1953 Iranian coup d'Atat, Uprising of 1953 in East Germany, 1954 Guatemalan coup d'Atat, Partition of Vietnam, First Taiwan Strait Crisis, Geneva Summit (1955), PoznaA 1956 protests, Hungarian Revolution of 1956, Suez Crisis, Sputnik crisis, Second Taiwan Strait Crisis, Cuban Revolution, Kitchen Debate, Bandung Conference, Bricker Amendment, McCarthyism, Operation Gladio, Iraqi July Revolution, "We will bury you", . , 1960s Congo Crisis, Sino-Soviet split, 1960 U-2 incident, Bay of Pigs Invasion, 1960 Turkish coup d'Atat, SovietaAlbanian split, Berlin Wall, Portuguese Colonial War (Angolan War of Independence , Guinea-Bissau War of Independence , Mozambican War of Independence) , Cuban missile crisis, Sino-Indian War, Sarawak Communist Insurgency, Iraqi Ramadan Revolution, 1963 Syrian coup d'Atat, Vietnam War, 1964 Brazilian coup d'Atat, United States occupation of the Dominican Republic (1965a66), South African Border War, Transition to the New Order, Domino theory, ASEAN Declaration, Laotian Civil War, 1966 Syrian coup d'Atat, Argentine Revolution, Korean DMZ Conflict, Greek military junta of 1967a74, USS Pueblo incident, Six-Day War, War of Attrition, Cultural Revolution, Prague Spring, Malaysia Communist Insurgency War, Invasion of Czechoslovakia, Iraqi Ba'athist Revolution, Goulash Communism, Sino-Soviet border conflict, Communist insurgency in the Philippines, Corrective Move, . , 1970s DAtente, Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, Black September in Jordan, 1970 Syrian Corrective Revolution, Cambodian Civil War, Realpolitik, Ping-pong diplomacy, 1971 Turkish coup d'Atat, Corrective Revolution (Egypt), Four Power Agreement on Berlin, 1972 Nixon visit to China, 1973 Chilean coup d'Atat, Yom Kippur War, Carnation Revolution, Strategic Arms Limitation Talks, Rhodesian Bush War, Angolan Civil War, Mozambican Civil War, Ogaden War, Ethiopian Civil War, Lebanese Civil War, Sino-Albanian split, CambodianaVietnamese War, Sino-Vietnamese War, Iranian Revolution, Operation Condor , Dirty War, Bangladesh Liberation War, Korean Air Lines Flight 902, Seven Days to the River Rhine, . , 1980s Soviet war in Afghanistan, 1980 and 1984 Summer Olympics boycotts, 1980 Turkish coup d'Atat, 1986 Black Sea incident, 1988 Black Sea bumping incident, Solidarity Soviet reaction, . , Contras, Central American crisis, RYAN, Korean Air Lines Flight 007, Able Archer 83, Star Wars, Invasion of Grenada, People Power Revolution, Nagorno-Karabakh War, Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, Fall of the Berlin Wall, Revolutions of 1989, Glasnost, Perestroika, . , 1990s Mongolian Revolution of 1990, Breakup of Yugoslavia, Dissolution of the Soviet Union, Dissolution of Czechoslovakia, . , Frozen conflicts Abkhazia, China, Korea, Nagorno-Karabakh, South Ossetia, Transnistria, Sino-Indian border dispute, . , Foreign policy Truman Doctrine, Marshall Plan, Containment, Eisenhower Doctrine, Domino theory, Hallstein Doctrine, Kennedy Doctrine, Peaceful coexistence, Ostpolitik, Johnson Doctrine, Brezhnev Doctrine, Nixon Doctrine, Ulbricht Doctrine, Carter Doctrine, Reagan Doctrine, Rollback, Sovereignty of Puerto Rico during the Cold War, . , Ideologies Capitalism Chicago school, Keynesianism, Monetarism, Neoclassical economics, Reaganomics, Supply-side economics, Thatcherism, . , . Communism MarxismaLeninism, Castroism, Eurocommunism, Guevarism, Hoxhaism, Juche, Maoism, Naxalism, Stalinism, Titoism, . , . Liberal democracy, Social democracy, . , Organizations ASEAN, CIA, Comecon, EEC, KGB, Non-Aligned Movement, SAARC, Safari Club, MI6, Stasi, . , Propaganda Active measures, Izvestia , Pravda , Crusade for Freedom, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Red Scare, TASS, Voice of America, Voice of Russia, . , Races Arms race, Nuclear arms race, Space Race, . , See also Brinkmanship, NATOaRussia relations, Soviet espionage in U.S., Russian espionage in U.S., Soviet UnionaUnited States relations, USaSoviet summits, . , Category , Portal, Timeline, List of conflicts, . , v , t , e , . Time Persons of the Year , Jimmy Carter (1976), Anwar Sadat (1977), Deng Xiaoping (1978), Ayatollah Khomeini (1979), Ronald Reagan (1980), Lech WaAAsa (1981), The Computer (1982), Ronald Reagan / Yuri Andropov (1983), Peter Ueberroth (1984), Deng Xiaoping (1985), Corazon Aquino (1986), Mikhail Gorbachev (1987), The Endangered Earth (1988), Mikhail Gorbachev (1989), George H. W. Bush (1990), Ted Turner (1991), Bill Clinton (1992), aThe Peacemakersa: Yitzhak Rabin / Nelson Mandela / F. W. de Klerk / Yasser Arafat (1993), Pope John Paul II (1994), Newt Gingrich (1995), David Ho (1996), Andrew Grove (1997), Bill Clinton / Ken Starr (1998), Jeffrey P. Bezos (1999), George W. Bush (2000), . , Complete roster, 1927a1950, 1951a1975, 1976a2000, 2001apresent, . , v , t , e , . Laureates of the Nobel Peace Prize , 1901a1925 1901 Henry Dunant/ FrAdAric Passy, 1902 Alie Ducommun/ Charles Gobat, 1903 Randal Cremer, 1904 Institut de Droit International, 1905 Bertha von Suttner, 1906 Theodore Roosevelt, 1907 Ernesto Moneta/ Louis Renault, 1908 Klas Arnoldson/ Fredrik Bajer, 1909 A. M. F. Beernaert/ Paul Estournelles de Constant, 1910 International Peace Bureau, 1911 Tobias Asser/ Alfred Fried, 1912 Elihu Root, 1913 Henri La Fontaine, 1914 , 1915 , 1916 , 1917 International Committee of the Red Cross, 1918 , 1919 Woodrow Wilson, 1920 LAon Bourgeois, 1921 Hjalmar Branting/ Christian Lange, 1922 Fridtjof Nansen, 1923 , 1924 , 1925 Austen Chamberlain/ Charles Dawes, . , 1926a1950 1926 Aristide Briand/ Gustav Stresemann, 1927 Ferdinand Buisson/ Ludwig Quidde, 1928 , 1929 Frank B. Kellogg, 1930 Nathan SAderblom, 1931 Jane Addams/ Nicholas Butler, 1932 , 1933 Norman Angell, 1934 Arthur Henderson, 1935 Carl von Ossietzky, 1936 Carlos Saavedra Lamas, 1937 Robert Cecil, 1938 Nansen International Office for Refugees, 1939 , 1940 , 1941 , 1942 , 1943 , 1944 International Committee of the Red Cross, 1945 Cordell Hull, 1946 Emily Balch/ John Mott, 1947 Friends Service Council/ American Friends Service Committee, 1948 , 1949 John Boyd Orr, 1950 Ralph Bunche, . , 1951a1975 1951 LAon Jouhaux, 1952 Albert Schweitzer, 1953 George Marshall, 1954 United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, 1955 , 1956 , 1957 Lester B. Pearson, 1958 Georges Pire, 1959 Philip Noel-Baker, 1960 Albert Lutuli, 1961 Dag HammarskjAld, 1962 Linus Pauling, 1963 International Committee of the Red Cross/ League of Red Cross Societies, 1964 Martin Luther King, Jr., 1965 UNICEF, 1966 , 1967 , 1968 RenA Cassin, 1969 International Labour Organization, 1970 Norman Borlaug, 1971 Willy Brandt, 1972 , 1973 LA Aac Tha (declined award) / Henry Kissinger, 1974 SeAn MacBride/ Eisaku SatA, 1975 Andrei Sakharov, . , 1976a2000 1976 Betty Williams/ Mairead Corrigan, 1977 Amnesty International, 1978 Anwar Sadat/ Menachem Begin, 1979 Mother Teresa, 1980 Adolfo PArez Esquivel, 1981 United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, 1982 Alva Myrdal/ Alfonso GarcAa Robles, 1983 Lech WaAAsa, 1984 Desmond Tutu, 1985 International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War, 1986 Elie Wiesel, 1987 Ascar Arias, 1988 UN Peacekeeping Forces, 1989 Tenzin Gyatso (14th Dalai Lama) , 1990 Mikhail Gorbachev , 1991 Aung San Suu Kyi, 1992 Rigoberta MenchA, 1993 Nelson Mandela/ F. W. de Klerk, 1994 Shimon Peres/ Yitzhak Rabin/ Yasser Arafat, 1995 Pugwash Conferences/ Joseph Rotblat, 1996 Carlos Belo/ JosA Ramos-Horta, 1997 International Campaign to Ban Landmines/ Jody Williams, 1998 John Hume/ David Trimble, 1999 MAdecins Sans FrontiAres, 2000 Kim Dae-jung, . , 2001apresent 2001 Kofi Annan/ United Nations, 2002 Jimmy Carter, 2003 Shirin Ebadi, 2004 Wangari Maathai, 2005 International Atomic Energy Agency/ Mohamed ElBaradei, 2006 Grameen Bank/ Muhammad Yunus, 2007 Al Gore/ Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 2008 Martti Ahtisaari, 2009 Barack Obama, 2010 Liu Xiaobo, 2011 Ellen Johnson Sirleaf/ Leymah Gbowee/ Tawakkol Karman, 2012 European Union, 2013 Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, 2014 Kailash Satyarthi/ Malala Yousafzai, . , Authority control WorldCat, VIAF: 97859168 , LCCN: n85050740 , GND: 11874660X , SELIBR: 56647 , SUDOC: 028127625 , BNF: cb12002384m (data) , NLA: 35782074 , NDL: 00441310 , NKC: jn19990210249 , BNE: XX882424 , . , Persondata Name, Gorbachev, Mikhail, Alternative names, DDNDDNND, DDNDDID DDNDDIDDDN (Russian); GorbaAAv, Mihail SergeeviA (alternate transliteration); Gorbachyov, Mikhail Sergeyevich (alternate transliteration), Short description, leader of the Soviet Union, Date of birth, 2 March 1931, Place of birth, Privolnoye, Russia, Date of death, Place of death, Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mikhail_Gorbachev and oldid=632891057" Categories: 1931 births, Living people, People from Stavropol, Mikhail Gorbachev, Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union members, Cold War leaders, Collars of the Order of the White Lion, Communist rulers, Grammy Award-winning artists, Grawemeyer Award winners, Heads of state of the Soviet Union, Heads of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, Moscow State University alumni, Nobel Peace Prize laureates, People of the Soviet war in Afghanistan, Politburo of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union members, Recipients of the Indira Gandhi Peace Prize, Recipients of the Order of the Red Banner of Labour, Honorary Members of the Russian Academy of Arts, Russian atheists, Russian communists, Russian Nobel laureates, Russian people of Ukrainian descent, Soviet people of Ukrainian descent, Russian politicians, . Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links, Articles with dead external links from December 2011, Articles with dead external links from January 2011, Articles with hAudio microformats, Articles containing Russian-language text, Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from August 2010, All pages needing factual verification, Wikipedia articles needing factual verification from September 2010, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, Use dmy dates from August 2014, Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers, Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers, Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers, Wikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiers, Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers, Wikipedia articles with NLA identifiers, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
Afrikaans, Alemannisch, OUOOOUO, AragonAs, Asturianu, AzErbaycanca, aaaaa, DDNODNNND, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, Bikol Central, DNDDDNNDD, Bosanski, Brezhoneg, CatalA, DODDNDD, AeAtina, Cymraeg, Dansk, Deutsch, Eesti, IIIIIIII, EspaAol, Esperanto, Euskara, UOOOU, FranAais, Frysk, Gaeilge, GAidhlig, Galego, ee, iei, OOOOOOO, aaaaaa, Hrvatski, Ido, Bahasa Indonesia, DNDD, Aslenska, Italiano, Basa Jawa, aaaaaaa, ODDDOND, KurdA, DNNND DDNN, Latina, LatvieAu, LAtzebuergesch, LietuviA, Magyar, DDDDDDDNDD, Malagasy, aaaaaa, Malti, aaaaa, aaaaaaaaa, UOOU, UOOUOUUU, Bahasa Melayu, DDDDDDDDNNDN, DDDDDD, aaaaaaaaaa, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, Occitan, DDND DDNDD, aaaaa, OEzbekcha, aaaaaa, UUOOOU, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, Runa Simi, DNNNDDD, DDND NNDD, aaaaaaaaa, Sardu, Scots, Shqip, Sicilianu, Simple English, SlovenAina, SlovenAAina, AlAnski, UUOOU, DNDNDD / srpski, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Suomi, Svenska, Tagalog, aaaaa, DDNDNND/tatarAa, aaa, DDODDO, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, OOOU, VAneto, Tiang Viat, Walon, Winaray, YorAbA, ce, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 7 November 2014 at 23:44.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
