
Ministry of Justice (Russia) - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Ministry of Justice (Russia) 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Ministry of Justice of Russia DDDDNNDNNNDD NNNDNDD DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD, Ministry seal , Agency overview Formed 1991, Preceding agencies Ministry of Justice of the USSR (1946-1991)
People's Commissariat for Justice (1917a1946)
Ministry of Justice of the Russian Empire (1802a1917)
Collegium of Justice (1717a1802)
Sudebny Prikaz (1549a1720), Jurisdiction President of Russia, Headquarters Moscow, Russia
55A43a53aN 37A36a42aE i / i 55.73139AN 37.61167AE i / 55.73139; 37.61167 Coordinates: 55A43a53aN 37A36a42aE i / i 55.73139AN 37.61167AE i / 55.73139; 37.61167 , Minister responsible Alexander Konovalov, Child agency Federal Prisons Service, Website www.minjust.ru , Ministry of Justice of Russia (DDDDNNDNNNDD NNNDNDD DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD, DDDNNN DDNNDD) is the central government body charged with leading the legal and penal system of Russia.
The current Justice Minister is Alexander Konovalov.
Contents
1 Functions , 2 History , 3 Structure 3.1 Subordinate federal agencies (executive authorities) , 3.2 Former , . , 4 Ministers of Justice , 5 See also , 6 External links , . 
Functions [ edit ] 
According to the Decree of the President of the Russian Federation from October 13, 2004 (as amended on October 23, 2008) and in accordance with other regulations, the Ministry of Justice is engaged in the elaboration and implementation of public policies and regulatory control, as well as performs law enforcement duties and functions of control and supervision in the areas of:
execution of criminal penalties (by FSIN), Registered non-profit organizations, including the offices of international organizations and foreign non-governmental organizations, public associations, political parties and religious organizations, as well as providing information about them., advocacy and advocacy, notaries and notarial activity, State registration of civil status, Legalization and Apostille, ensure the established order of the courts and the execution of judicial acts and other organs;, Combating corruption (by help of the Prosecutor General of Russia), Anti-corruption expertise of draft laws, Anti-corruption expertise of draft laws spend accredited as an independent expert individuals and legal entities. As of November 16, 2010 as an independent expert accredited 828 individuals and 164 legal entities. The decision on accreditation taking the Minister of Justice of the Russian Federation or one of its authorized deputy ministers, as issued an executive order. Accredited experts issued certificate., . 
History [ edit ] 
The Ministry of Justice of the Russian Empire was founded on September 8, 1802 by Manifesto of Alexander I "On the establishment of ministries." The same document as part of the Government provided for the post of Minister of Justice, and he also served as Attorney General of the Russian Empire.
The Ministry of Justice has been designated as the preparation of legislative acts, as well as the management of courts and prosecutors. It dealt with the appointment, transfer, dismissal of officials of judicial departments, agencies and the abolition of the courts, supervised their work.
The first Minister of Justice was the General Prosecutor of the Russian Empire, Gavriil Romanovich Derzhavin.
On 1864 in Russia, the judicial reform was held, in the preparation and conduct of which the Ministry of Justice has taken an active part, the powers of the Ministry of Justice significantly expanded. At all stages of judicial reform, the role of the Ministry of Justice, was significant, even decisive. Ministry of Justice carried out the management of the judiciary, and prison management of landmark pieces, notaries. As director of personnel of the court and prosecutors, it was the right appointment and dismissal of the investigators on the most important cases in district courts and municipal judges and members of the county district court. The Ministry has introduced the world's institutions of judges and jurors, directly managed the activities of prosecutors, and manage places of detention. Department have sufficient authority to establish and enforce legal policy of the state.
On the proposal of the Ministry of Justice of the Act of June 16, 1884 was enhanced sentence for embezzlement and theft of service, including those of the privileged classes. At the request of the Ministry of Justice, May 26, 1881 was canceled public executions. In the area of civil rights May 19, 1881 were compiled by the Ministry of Justice rules on how to strengthen the rights of real estate.
All legislative proposals submitted to the conclusion of the Ministry of Justice prior to making them for consideration by the Council of State, on the 1881 bills other departments began to arrive at the conclusion of the Ministry of Justice not only to evaluate them from a legal perspective, but also to harmonize with the existing laws.
Legislation Ministry of Justice of the late 19th century - early 20th century was characterized by a focus on individual rights. In 1897, a draft bill to amend the order of the excitation of questions about the responsibility of governors, in 1903 - the draft law on probation, which was completely new and very democratic institution in Russia, in the same year, the Ministry of Justice was designed by disciplinary regulations governing the punishment of official misconduct, and in 1904, a draft law on some of the changes in the prosecution of criminal liability, and public order offenses. In the same year the Ministry of Justice approved the regulations on the procedure of the prison department of civil political prisoners.
Since the mid-19th century, the Ministers of Justice is actively engaged in international activities: chairing the International Tribunal, were members of a permanent International Court of Arbitration in The Hague. The aim was to inform the Ministry of Justice Ministers on approval of the statutes of newly created organizations and societies, and the Minister was obliged to submit to Emperor weekly personal or written reports on the status of assigned cases.
After the October Revolution of 1917, the Ministry of Justice was transformed into the People's Commissariat of Justice. The practical implementation of the Decree a 1 "On Court" demanded that the judiciary efforts related to the formation of vessels and the selection of personnel for them. Prominently in the work of the Commissariat of Justice took the creation of new legislation. Accepted January 30, 1928 Resolution of the Communist Central Executive Committee and People's Commissar of Justice were directly subordinated to the prosecutor, and as Vice Chairman of the Supreme Court of the Republic..
Subsequently, the powers of the People's Commissariat of Justice has undergone radical changes - in 1936 the prosecutor's office was separated into an independent agency.
On 1991 the Soviet Justice Ministry was dissolved and the Russian Federation's Ministry of Justice was founded.
Structure [ edit ] 
The Ministry is headed by the Minister of Justice. he has seven deputies.
Central office, The Department of Registration of Department regulations, Department of Organization and Control, Department of regulatory analysis and oversight of penal and judicial decisions, Department of Civil Service and Personnel, Department of International Law and Cooperation, The Department of Constitutional law, Department of Civil and social law, Department of Administration, Department for non-profit organizations, Department of Legal Aid and interaction with the judicial system, Department of Legislative Activities and monitor enforcement, Representative of the Russian Federation to the European Court of Human Rights - Deputy Minister, Department complaints on criminal matters, Division of complaints in civil matters, Analysis Division case law, organization and control execution, Front office, Research Center of Legal Information, Federal Agency for the Legal Protection of intellectual activity of the military, special and dual-use, Russian Legal Academy, State Legal Office, Forensic expert agency, Territorial authorities of the Ministry of Justice, . 
Subordinate federal agencies (executive authorities) [ edit ] 
Federal Penitentiary Service (FSIN of Russia), Federal Bailiffs Service (FSSP Russia), . 
Former [ edit ] 
The Federal Registration Service, On May 12, 2008 was moved under the supervision of the Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation, in December 2008 was renamed as the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre, and Cartography, later to be subordinated directly to the Government of Russia, . 
Ministers of Justice [ edit ] 
Main article: List of Russian justice ministers 
Justice ministers Minister Start year End year Nikolai Fyodorov, 1990, 1993, Yuri Kalmykov, 1993, 1994, Valentine Kovalyov, 1995, 1997, Sergey Stepashin, 1997, 1998, Pavel Krasheninnikov, 1998, 1999, Yuri Chaika, 1999, 2006, Vladimir Ustinov, 2006, 2008, Alexander Konovalov, 2008, See also [ edit ] 
Russia's Federal Penitentiary Service, . 
External links [ edit ] 
(Russian) Ministry of Justice of the Russian Federation, . 
v , t , e , . Government of the Russian Federation , Offices subordinated to the President of Russia , Ministry of Internal Affairs Police of the Russian Federation, Internal Troops, . , Ministry for Affairs of Civil Defence, Emergencies and Disaster Relief Russian State Fire Service, State Inspectorate for Small Ships, . , Ministry of Foreign Affairs Agency of CIS affairs, . , Ministry of Defence Service of Military-Technical Cooperation, Service of Technical and Export Control, Service for Defence Contracts, Agency of Special Construction, . , Ministry of Justice Federal Penitentiary Service, Service of Court Bailiffs, . , Presidential Services
and Directorates Foreign Intelligence Service, Federal Security Service, Federal Drug Control Service of Russia, Federal Protective Service, Special Communications Service, State Courier Service, Chief Directorate of Special Programs of the President, Federal Financial Monitoring, Directorate of the President, . , Offices subordinated to Government of Russia head by the Chairman , Ministry of Health Service of Supervision in the Sphere of Public Health Services, Medical and Biologic Agency, . , Ministry of Culture Federal Archival Agency, . , Ministry of Education
and Science Service for Supervision in the Sphere of Education and Science, Service for Intellectual Property, Patents and Trademarks, Agency of Education, Agency of Science and Innovation, Federal Youth Agency, . , Ministry of Natural Resources
and Environment Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring, Service of Supervision in Sphere of Wildlife Management, Agency of Water Resources, Agency on the use of Mineral Resources, . , Ministry of Industry and Trade Agency of Technical Regulation and Metrology, . , Ministry of Regional Development , Ministry for Development of Russian Far East , Ministry of Crimean Affairs , Ministry of Communications
and Mass Media Agency of Communication, Agency on Information Technologies, Federal Agency on Press and Mass Communications of the Russian Federation, Federal Service for Supervision of Communications, Information Technology and Mass Media, . , Ministry of Agriculture Service of Veterinary and Phytosanitary Supervision, Agency of Forestry, Agency of Fisheries, . , Ministry of Sport , Ministry of Construction, Housing and Utilities , Ministry of Transport Federal Service of Supervision of Transport, Air Transport Agency, Road Agency, Agency of Railway Transport, Agency of Sea and River Transport, . , Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Federal Service for Labour and Employment, . , Ministry of Finance Federal Tax Service, Service of Insurance Supervision, Service of Financial-Budgetary Supervision, Treasury, . , Ministry of Economic
Development Agency for State Reserves, Agency for State Property Management, State Statistics, . , Ministry of Energy Russian Energy Agency, . , Governmental committees, services and agencies Federal Migratory Service, Federal Antimonopoly Service, Federal Service for Supervision of Consumer Rights Protection and Human Welfare, Service for Hydrometeorology and the Monitoring of the Environment, Federal Customs Service, Service of Ecological, Technological and Nuclear Supervision, Service on Tariffs, Federal Financial Monitoring Service, Financial Market Service, Federal Space Agency, Agency for Deliveries of Military and Special Equipment of Material Means, Agency on the Arrangement of the State Boundary, Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ministry_of_Justice_(Russia) and oldid=616881927" Categories: Organizations based in Moscow, Federal Ministries of Russia, . Hidden categories: Coordinates on Wikidata, Articles with Russian-language external links, Use dmy dates from April 2012, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DDNODNNND, FranAais, aeaee, DNNNDDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 14 July 2014 at 07:32.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
