
Politics of Moldova - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of Moldova 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . 
, This article is outdated . Please update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. (April 2014) , This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2014) , Moldova , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Moldova , Constitution Human rights, . , Parliament Speaker Marian Lupu , . , Judiciary Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, . , Executive President Nicolae Timofti , Prime Minister Iurie LeancA , Cabinet Second Filat Cabinet , . , Administrative divisions Elections Political parties, . , Foreign policy Foreign relations European Union , Moldova and NATO, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The politics of Moldova takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the prime minister is the head of government and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in the Parliament. The judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature. The position of the breakaway region of Transnistria (self proclaimed autonomy, on the left side of the river Nistru), relations with Romania and Russia, and integration into the EU dominate the political agenda.
Contents
1 Legislative branch 1.1 Political parties and elections , . , 2 Executive branch 2.1 Ministries , . , 3 Judicial branch , 4 Administrative divisions , 5 Issues 5.1 Human trafficking , 5.2 Transnistria , . , 6 Notes , . 
Legislative branch [ edit ] 
Parliament of the Republic of Moldova in ChiAinAu. 
The Moldovan Parliament ( Parlamentul ) has 101 members, elected for a four-year term by proportional representation. The president is elected for a four-year term by parliament.
Political parties and elections [ edit ] 
For other political parties see List of political parties in Moldova. An overview on elections and election results is included in Elections in Moldova. 
ead Summary of the 28 November 2010 Parliament of Moldova election results Parties and coalitions Votes th> Seats +/a , Party of Communists of the Republic of Moldova, 677, 069, 39.34, 42, a6, Liberal Democratic Party of Moldova, 506, 253, 29.42, 32, +14, Democratic Party of Moldova, 218, 620, 12.70, 15, +2, Liberal Party, 171, 336, 9.96, 12, a3, Our Moldova Alliance, 35, 289, 2.05, 0, a7, European Action Movement, 21, 049, 1.22, 0, New, Humanist Party of Moldova, 15, 494, 0.90, 0, New, National Liberal Party, 10, 938, 0.64, 0, New, Social Democratic Party, 10, 156, 0.59, 0, 0, Christian Democratic People's Party, 9, 038, 0.53, 0, 0, United Moldova, 8, 238, 0.48, 0, New, For Nation and Country, 4, 819, 0.28, 0, New, Roma Movement of the Republic of Moldova, 2, 394, 0.14, 0, New, Conservative Party, 2, 089, 0.12, 0, New, Popular Republican Party, 1, 997, 0.12, 0, New, Republican Party of Moldova, 1, 763, 0.10, 0, New, Equality, 1, 781, 0.10, 0, New, Patriots of Moldova, 1, 580, 0.09, 0, New, Ecologist Party of Moldova "Green Alliance", 1, 385, 0.08, 0, 0, Labour Party, 873, 0.05, 0, New, Independents, 18, 832, 1.09, 0, New, Invalid/blank votes, 11, 907, a, a, a, Total , 1, 720, 993 , 100 , 101 , a , Registered voters/turnout, 2, 645, 923, 65.04, a, a, Source: eDemocracy, In the 2010 Parliamentary election, the Communists won 42 seats, while the Liberal-Democrats won 32, the Democratic Party won 15, and the Liberals won 12. This gave the Alliance for European Integration 59 seats, two short of the 61 needed to elect a President. The result thus maintained the status quo following the contemperaneous constitutional deadlock.
Observers from the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) and the Council of Europe lauded the election.
Executive branch [ edit ] 
Main article: Cabinet of Moldova 
Main office holders Office Name Party Since President, Nicolae Timofti, Independent, 23 March 2012, Prime Minister, Iurie LeancA, Liberal Democratic Party
Alliance for European Integration, 25 April 2013, The president is elected by the Parliament for a four-year term. According to the Moldovan constitution, the president, on consulting with the parliament, will designate a candidate for the office of prime minister; within 15 days from designation, the prime minister-designate will request a vote of confidence from the parliament regarding his/her work program and entire cabinet. The cabinet is selected by prime minister-designate, subject to approval of parliament.
Ministries [ edit ] 
The 16 ministries of the Government of Moldova are:
Ministry of Internal Affairs of Moldova, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Transport and Roads Infrastructure, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Construction and Regional Development, Ministry of Labor, Family and Social Protection, Ministry of Defense, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Youth and Sports, Ministry of Informational Technologies and Communication, . 
Judicial branch [ edit ] 
, This section is empty. You can help by adding to it. (June 2014) , Administrative divisions [ edit ] 
Main article: Subdivisions of Moldova 
Moldova is divided into 32 raions, or raioane , five municipalities (ChiAinAu, BAlAi and Bender), one autonomous region (Gagauzia), and the breakaway region of Transnistria, the status of which is disputed.
Issues [ edit ] 
There is disagreement as to whether elections and politics in Moldova are carried out in a free and democratic climate on the part of certain organizations. The United States Senate has held committee hearings on irregularities that marred elections in Moldova, including arrests and harassment of opposition candidates, intimidation and suppression of independent media, and state run media bias in favor of candidates backed by the Communist-led Moldovan Government. [ 1 ] Other critics have also referred to the Communist Party government as being authoritarian. [ 2 ] [ 3 ] Nevertheless, George W. Bush stated that: "We note and welcome Moldova's positive record since independence in conducting free and fair elections and in implementing democratic reforms." [ 4 ] 
There have also been reports of politically motivated arrests and arrests without valid legal grounds. Such arrests are allegedly carried out against opponents of the Communist Party government of President Vladimir Voronin. In one case which was criticized by various Western organizations and individuals, opposition politician Valeriu Pasat was sentenced to ten years imprisonment on dubious grounds. [ 5 ] 
Moldova had successfully joined the World Trade Organization and the Southeast European Stability Pact in 2001. Of primary importance have been the government's efforts to improve relations with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank and to comply with agreements negotiated in 2000 by the former government. Agreement in these areas was critical, because large government debts that were due in 2002 had to be rescheduled. The government has made concerted efforts to find ways to pay for Moldova's energy supplies.
Political parties and other groups publish newspapers, which often criticize government policies. There are several independent news services, radio stations, and an independent television station. Peaceful assembly is allowed, though permits for demonstrations must be obtained; private organizations, including political parties, are required to register with the government. Legislation passed in 1992 codified freedom of religion but required that religious groups be recognized by the government.
A 1990 Soviet law and a 1991 parliamentary decision authorizing formation of social organizations provide for independent trade unions. However, the Federation of Independent Trade Unions of Moldova, successor to the former organizations of the Soviet trade union system, is the sole structure. It has tried to influence government policy in labor issues and has been critical of many economic policies. Moldovan labor law, which is based on former Soviet legislation, provides for collective bargaining rights.
Human trafficking [ edit ] 
Due to the high rate of poverty, Moldova remains a large source-country of illegal sex workers that are exported to Western Europe and the Middle East. Because of pervasive corruption and a general lack of awareness, many victims of human trafficking are lured into the business with offers of high-salary jobs abroad, and are often trapped once out of the country. The US government urged Moldova to pass an anti-trafficking law in 2005, but due to a lack of enforcement, low regard of legal institutions, and unequal benchmark requirements, clear progress is difficult to ascertain. Organizations such as the International Organization for Migration provide non-governmental support integral to helping victims. However, NGOs are often subject to domestic constraints and government interference in their work, complicating their operations.
Transnistria [ edit ] 
Transnistrian region of Moldova Main article: Transnistria 
The Moldovan Declaration of Independence clearly and directly claims Moldovan sovereignty over the territory of Transnistria as it is "a component part of the historical and ethnic territory of our people". However the Moldovan Declaration of Independence is itself used as an argument against Moldovan sovereignty over Transnistria as it denounces the agreement of 23 August 1939 between the government of the Soviet Union and the government of Germany "null and void" being the only formal union between the two territories. [ 6 ] 
After failing to establish control over the breakaway region in the War of Transnistria, Moldova offered a rather broad cultural and political autonomy to the region. The dispute has strained Moldova's relations with Russia. The July 1992 cease-fire agreement established a tripartite peacekeeping force composed of Moldovan, Russian, and Transnistrian units. Negotiations to resolve the conflict continue, and the cease-fire is still in effect. The OSCE is trying to facilitate a negotiated settlement and has had an observer mission in place for several years.
The country remains divided, with the Transnistrian region along the Ukrainian border controlled by separatist forces.
Notes [ edit ] 
^ U.S. Library of Congress, Senate report 2004 , ^ Statement of Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) , ^ Press freedom report (CPJ) , ^ Joint Statement by President George W. Bush and President Vladimir Voronin on U.S.-Moldovan Relations U.S. State Department 17 December 2002. Retrieved 11-20 2006. , ^ Moldova: An Insider Looks At The Pasat Case Radio Free Europe. 4 July 2005. Retrieved 11-15 2006 , ^ Tiraspol Times; Former ASSR Pridnestrovie reminds Moldova: "You yourself denounced our union" , v , t , e , . Moldovatopics , History Prehistoric Balkans, Dacia, Principality of Moldavia, Bessarabia, Union with Romania, Greater Romania, Moldavian SSR, War of Transnistria, Declaration of independence, Post-independence , . , Geography 
Climate, Fauna, Rivers Danube, Dniester, Prut, . , . , Subdivisions Cities, Localities, Territories Gagauzia, Transnistria , . , . , Politics 
Cabinet, Constitution, Elections, Foreign relations, Human rights, LGBT rights, Law enforcement, Military, Parliament, Political parties, President, Prime Minister, Status of Transnistria, Unification with Romania and Transnistria, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Central Bank, Leu (currency) , Communications, Energy, Poverty, Tourism, Transport, . , Society 
Crime, Demographics, Education, Health care, Moldovans, Languages Moldovan, . , Religion, . , Culture Cinema, Cuisine, Music, National identity, Romanian language literature, writers, poets, . , Sport, . , Outline, Index, . Category, Portal, WikiProject, Transnistria topics, . , v , t , e , . Politics of Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova , Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_Moldova and oldid=626183220" Categories: Politics of Moldova, History of Moldova since 1991, . Hidden categories: Wikipedia articles in need of updating from April 2014, All Wikipedia articles in need of updating, Articles needing additional references from April 2014, All articles needing additional references, Articles to be expanded from June 2014, All articles to be expanded, Articles with empty sections from June 2014, All articles with empty sections, Use dmy dates from July 2012, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
aaaaa, DNDDDNNDD, FranAais, Italiano, LietuviA, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, DDNDNDNNDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 19 September 2014 at 07:30.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
