
Politics of Monaco - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of Monaco 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Monaco , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Monaco , Constitution, Prince (list) Albert II , Crown Council, Council of Government Minister of State: Michel Roger , National Council President: Laurent Nouvion , Communal Council Mayor: Georges Marsan , Supreme Court, Recent elections Parliamentary: 2008, 2013, . , Political parties, Foreign relations, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The politics of Monaco have traditionally been under the autocratic control of the Prince of Monaco, and has been a monarchy ruled by the House of Grimaldi; however, with the creation of a Constitution in 1911, the Prince relinquished absolute rule over the principality, which has since become a constitutional monarchy. Though the Prince remains head of state, some of his former powers have now devolved to several advisory and legislative bodies.
Contents
1 Constitution , 2 Government of Monaco 2.1 Executive branch , 2.2 Legislative branch , 2.3 Political parties and elections , 2.4 Judicial branch , . , 3 Administrative divisions , 4 LGBT rights and Abortion , 5 International organization participation , 6 References , 7 External links , . 
Constitution [ edit ] 
Main article: Constitution of Monaco 
A first Constitution of Monaco was adopted in 1911, with a new one awarded by Prince Rainier III on December 17, 1962, outlining legislative, judicial, and executive branches of government, which consist of several administrative offices and a number of councils. The Prince as head of state retains most of the country's governing power; however, the principality's judicial and legislative bodies may operate independent of his control.
Government of Monaco [ edit ] 
Executive branch [ edit ] 
Main office holders Office Name Party Since Prince, Albert II, 6 April 2005, Minister of State, Michel Roger, Independent, 29 March 2010, The Council of Government is under the authority of the prince. The title and position of prince is hereditary, the minister of state appointed by the monarch from a list of three French or Monegasque national candidates presented by the French government. Until the 2002 amendment to the Monegasque constitution, only French nationals were eligible for the post. The prince is advised by the Crown Council of Monaco.
Legislative branch [ edit ] 
The unicameral National Council ( Conseil National ) has 24 seats. The members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms.
Political parties and elections [ edit ] 
For other political parties see List of political parties in Monaco. An overview on elections and election results is included in Elections in Monaco. 
ead Summary of the 3 February 2008 National Council of Monaco election results Parties Votes th> Seats +/a Union for Monaco Union for the Principality, National Union for the Future of Monaco, Rally for the Monegasque Family, . , 53, 523, 52.20, 21, 0, Rally and Issues, 41, 512, 40.49, 3, 0, Monaco Together, 7, 491, 7.31, 0, New, Invalid/blank votes, 204, a, a, a, Total , 7, 854 , 100 , 24 , 0 , Registered voters/turnout, 6, 316, 76.9, a, a, Sources: Monaco Mairie Elections Monaco, Nohlen and StAver [ 1 ] , Judicial branch [ edit ] 
The supreme courts are the Judicial revision court ( Cour de rAvision judiciaire ), which hears civil and criminal cases (as well as some administrative cases), and the Supreme tribunal ( tribunal suprAme ), which performs judicial review. Both courts are staffed by French judges (appointed among judges of French courts, members of the Conseil d'Atat and university professors).
Administrative divisions [ edit ] 
There are no first-order administrative divisions in the principality, which is instead traditionally divided into four quarters (French: quartiers , singular quartier ): Fontvieille, La Condamine, Monaco-Ville and Monte-Carlo, with the suburb Moneghetti (part of La Condamine) colloquially seen as an unofficial, fifth quarter. They have a joint Communal Council of Monaco.
The principality is, for administrative and official purposes, currently divided into ten wards:
Monaco-Ville, Monte Carlo/SpAlugues, Fontvieille, Moneghetti/Bd de Belgique, Les RAvoires, La Colle, La Condamine, Saint Michel, Larvotto/Bas Moulins, La Rousse/Saint Roman, . 
LGBT rights and Abortion [ edit ] 
Public attitudes in Monaco about LGBT rights and abortion tend to be influenced by the Catholic Church, although not a member of the European Union, Monaco also has strong ties to France, which has more liberal polices in these areas. Thus there is a mixture of both conservative and liberal attitudes in Monaco concerning these issues.
Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) persons in Monaco may face legal challenges not experienced by non-LGBT residents. Both male and female same-sex sexual activity are legal in Monaco, when conducted in private between consenting adults. Cross-dressing is likewise not expressly illegal, but the law does not allow for transgender people to change their identity after gender reassignment surgery.
Monaco is scheduled to adopt anti-discrimination laws that will include "sexual orientation" as a protected category in areas such as employment, education, housing, health care, banking or public accommodations. Same-sex couples and households headed by same-sex couples are not eligible for any of the same legal protections available to opposite-sex married couples, although there has been some discussion in the Monaco parliament about offering same-sex couples limited legal protections under the cohabitation law. The French government provides for the nation's defense, which allows openly gay, lesbian, and bisexual people to serve.
Abortion in Monaco is only allowed in cases of rape, fetal deformity or illness, or fatal danger to the mother. The most recent abortion legislation was enacted on 8 April 2009; before then Monaco had one of the strictest abortion laws in Europe, only allowing the procedure if there was a risk of fatality for the mother.
International organization participation [ edit ] 
See also: Foreign relations of Monaco 
ACCT, ECE, IAEA, ICAO, ICRM, IFRCS, IHO, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, International Criminal Police Organization - Interpol, IOC, ITU, OPCW, OSCE, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, Council of Europe.
References [ edit ] 
^ Nohlen, D and StAver, P (2010) Elections in Europe: A data handbook , p1360 ISBN 9873832956097 , External links [ edit ] 
A summary of the principality's constitution, . 
v , t , e , . Politics of Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco , Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_Monaco and oldid=628938206" Categories: Politics of Monaco, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DNDDDNNDD, EspaAol, FranAais, Polski, PortuguAs, Suomi, . Edit links This page was last modified on 9 October 2014 at 15:43.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
