
Moscow Kremlin - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Moscow Kremlin 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search "The Kremlin" redirects here. For other uses, see Kremlin (disambiguation). 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (March 2009) , Moscow Kremlin Native name 
Russian: DDNDDIDNDDD DNDDDN , View of the Kremlin from the Moscow River. , Location Moscow, Russia, Area 27.7 hectares (0.277km 2 ), Built 1482a1495, UNESCO World Heritage Site Official name: Kremlin and Red Square, Moscow , Type Cultural, Criteria i, ii, iv, vi, Designated 1990 (14th session) , Referenceno. 545, State Party Russian Federation, Region Europe, The Moscow Kremlin (Russian: DDNDDIDNDDD DNDDDN , tr. Moskovskiy Kreml ; IPA: [mEEskofskEEj krEemlE] ), usually referred to as simply the Kremlin , is a historic fortified complex at the heart of Moscow, overlooking the Moskva River to the south, Saint Basil's Cathedral and Red Square to the east, and the Alexander Garden to the west. It is the best known of kremlins (Russian citadels) and includes five palaces, four cathedrals, and the enclosing Kremlin Wall with Kremlin towers. The complex serves as the official residence of the President of the Russian Federation.
The name Kremlin means "fortress inside a city", [ 1 ] and is often used as a metonym to refer to the government of the Russian Federation in a similar sense to how the White House is used to refer to the Executive Office of the President of the United States. Indeed, even the Russian president's official website is Kremlin.ru. It had previously been used to refer to the government of the Soviet Union (1922a1991) and its highest members (such as general secretaries, premiers, presidents, ministers, and commissars). "Kremlinology" refers to the study of Soviet and Russian politics.
Contents
1 History 1.1 Origin , 1.2 Seat of grand dukes , 1.3 Residence of the tsars , 1.4 Imperial period , 1.5 Soviet period and beyond , . , 2 Buildings 2.1 Helipad , . , 3 Moscow Metro , 4 References 4.1 Notes , 4.2 Bibliography , . , 5 External links , . 
History [ edit ] 
Origin [ edit ] 
Plan of the Moscow Kremlin, 1917 
The site was continuously inhabited by Finno-Ugric peoples since the 2nd century BC. The Slavs occupied the south-western portion of Borovitsky Hill as early as the 11th century, as evidenced by a metropolitan seal from the 1090s, which was unearthed by Soviet archaeologists in the area. Vyatichi built a fortified structure (or "grad") on the hill where the Neglinnaya River flowed into the Moskva River.
Up to the 14th century, the site was known as the 'grad of Moscow'. The word "kremlin" was first recorded in 1331 (though this was disputed by etymologist Max Vasmer). [ 2 ] The grad was greatly extended by Prince Yuri Dolgorukiy in 1156, destroyed by the Mongols in 1237 and rebuilt in oak in 1339. [ 3 ] 
Seat of grand dukes [ edit ] 
The Church of St. John Climacus (1328), the Transfiguration Monastery's Katholikon (1330), and the Archangel Cathedral (1333) a all built of limestone and decorated with elaborate carving, each crowned by a single dome. Of these churches, the reconstructed Saviour Cathedral alone survived into the 20th century, only to be pulled down at the urging of Stalin in 1933.
Dmitri Donskoi replaced the oak walls with a strong citadel of white limestone in 1366a1368 on the basic foundations of the current walls; [ 4 ] this fortification withstood a siege by Khan Tokhtamysh. Dmitri's son Vasily I resumed construction of churches and cloisters in the Kremlin. The newly built Annunciation Cathedral was painted by Theophanes the Greek, Andrei Rublev, and Prokhor in 1405. The Chudov Monastery was founded by Dmitri's tutor, Metropolitan Alexis; while his widow, Eudoxia, established the Ascension Convent in 1397.
Residence of the tsars [ edit ] 
"Kremlenagrad": the first detailed map of the Kremlin (1663) The Assumption Cathedral was the site of coronation of Russian tsars. 
Grand Prince Ivan III organised the reconstruction of the Kremlin, inviting a number of skilled architects from Renaissance Italy, like Petrus Antonius Solarius, who designed the new Kremlin wall and its towers, and Marcus Ruffus who designed the new palace for the prince. It was during his reign that three extant cathedrals of the Kremlin, the Deposition Church, and the Palace of Facets were constructed. The highest building of the city and Muscovite Russia was the Ivan the Great Bell Tower, built in 1505a08 and augmented to its present height in 1600. The Kremlin walls as they now appear were built between 1485 and 1495. [ 5 ] Spasskie gates of the wall still bear a dedication in Latin praising Petrus Antonius Solarius for the design.
After construction of the new kremlin walls and churches was complete, the monarch decreed that no structures should be built in the immediate vicinity of the citadel. The Kremlin was separated from the walled merchant town (Kitay-gorod) by a 30-meter-wide moat, over which Saint Basil's Cathedral was constructed during the reign of Ivan the Terrible. The same tsar also renovated some of his grandfather's palaces, added a new palace and cathedral for his sons, and endowed the Trinity metochion inside the Kremlin. The metochion was administrated by the Trinity Monastery and boasted the graceful tower church of St. Sergius, which was described by foreigners as one of the finest in the country.
During the Time of Troubles, the Kremlin was held by the Polish forces for two years, between 21 September 1610 and 26 October 1612. The Kremlin's liberation by the volunteer army of prince Dmitry Pozharsky and Kuzma Minin paved the way for the election of Mikhail Romanov as the new czar. During his reign and that of his son Alexis, the eleven-domed Upper Saviour Cathedral, Armorial Gate, Terem Palace, Amusement Palace and the palace of Patriarch Nikon were built. Following the death of Alexis, the Kremlin witnessed the Moscow Uprising of 1682, from which czar Peter barely escaped. As a result both of them disliked the Kremlin. Three decades later, Peter abandoned the residence of his forefathers for his new capital, Saint Petersburg.
Imperial period [ edit ] 
View from across the Moskva River in the 1820s A 17th-century hall in the Terem Palace, as painted in the 1840s A panoramic view of the Moscow Kremlin in 1908 Reception of the Tsar of Russia in the Moscow Kremlin. 
Although still used for coronation ceremonies, the Kremlin was abandoned and neglected until 1773, when Catherine the Great engaged Vasili Bazhenov to build her new residence there. Bazhenov produced a bombastic Neoclassical design on a heroic scale, which involved the demolition of several churches and palaces, as well as a portion of the Kremlin wall. After the preparations were over, construction halted due to lack of funds. Several years later, the architect Matvey Kazakov supervised the reconstruction of the dismantled sections of the wall and of some structures of the Chudov Monastery, and constructed the spacious and luxurious offices of the Senate, since adapted for use as the principal workplace of the President of Russia.
During the Imperial period, from the early 18th and until the late 19th century, Kremlin walls were traditionally painted white, in accordance with the time's fashion. [ 6 ] 
Following the French invasion of Russia in 1812, the French forces occupied the Kremlin from 2 September to 11 October. When Napoleon retreated from Moscow, he ordered the whole Kremlin to be blown up. The Kremlin Arsenal, several portions of the Kremlin Wall and several wall towers were destroyed by explosions and fires damaged the Faceted Chamber and churches. Explosions continued for three days, from 21 to 23 October. Fortunately, the rain damaged the fuses, and the damage was less severe than intended. Restoration works were held in 1816a19, supervised by Osip Bove. During the remainder of Alexander I's reign, several ancient structures were renovated in a fanciful neo-Gothic style, but many others were condemned as "disused" or "dilapidated" (including all the buildings of the Trinity metochion) and simply torn down.
On visiting Moscow for his coronation festivities, Nicholas I was not satisfied with the Grand, or Winter, Palace, which had been erected to Rastrelli's design in the 1750s. The elaborate Baroque structure was demolished, as was the nearby church of St. John the Precursor, built by Aloisio the New in 1508 in place of the first church constructed in Moscow. The architect Konstantin Thon was commissioned to replace them with the Grand Kremlin Palace, which was to rival the Winter Palace in St. Petersburg in its dimensions and the opulence of its interiors. The palace was constructed in 1839a49, followed by the new building of the Kremlin Armoury in 1851.
After 1851, the Kremlin changed little until the Russian Revolution of 1917; the only new features added during this period were the Monument to Alexander II and a stone cross marking the spot where Grand Duke Sergei Alexandrovich of Russia was assassinated by Ivan Kalyayev in 1905. These monuments were destroyed by the Bolsheviks in 1918.
Soviet period and beyond [ edit ] 
The famous Spasskaya tower, with its ruby star added in 1937. The Kremlin Wall Necropolis is in the foreground. 
The Soviet government moved from Petrograd to Moscow on 12 March 1918. Vladimir Lenin selected the Kremlin Senate as his residence. Joseph Stalin also had his personal rooms in the Kremlin. He was eager to remove from his headquarters all the "relics of the tsarist regime". Golden eagles on the towers were replaced by shining Kremlin stars, while the wall near Lenin's Mausoleum was turned into the Kremlin Wall Necropolis.
The Chudov Monastery and Ascension Convent, with their 16th-century cathedrals, were dismantled to make room for the military school and Palace of Congresses. The Little Nicholas Palace and the old Saviour Cathedral were pulled down as well. The residence of the Soviet government was closed to tourists until 1955. It was not until the Khrushchev Thaw that the Kremlin was reopened to foreign visitors. The Kremlin Museums were established in 1961 and the complex was among the first Soviet patrimonies inscribed on the World Heritage List in 1990.
Although the current director of the Kremlin Museums, Elena Gagarina (Yuri Gagarin's daughter) advocates a full-scale restoration of the destroyed cloisters, recent developments have been confined to expensive restoration of the original interiors of the Grand Kremlin Palace, which were altered during Stalin's rule. The Patriarch of Moscow has a suite of rooms in the Kremlin, but divine service in the Kremlin cathedrals is held irregularly, because they are still administered as museums.
Buildings [ edit ] 
Bird's-eye drawing of the Kremlin. The Red Square is indicated with a circle. Five double-headed Russian coat-of-arms eagles (below) substituting the former state emblem of the Soviet Union and the aDDDDa letters (above) in the facade of the Grand Kremlin Palace after the dissolution of the Soviet Union 
The existing Kremlin walls and towers were built by Italian masters over the years 1485 to 1495. The irregular triangle of the Kremlin wall encloses an area of 275, 000 square metres (68 acres). Its overall length is 2, 235 metres (2, 444 yards), but the height ranges from 5 to 19 metres, depending on the terrain. The wall's thickness is between 3.5 and 6.5 metres.
Originally there were eighteen Kremlin towers, but their number increased to twenty in the 17th century. All but three of the towers are square in plan. The highest tower is the Troizkaya, which was built up to its present height of 73, 9 metres in 1495. Most towers were originally crowned with wooden tents; the extant brick tents with strips of colored tiles go back to the 1680s.
Cathedral Square is the heart of the Kremlin. It is surrounded by six buildings, including three cathedrals. The Cathedral of the Dormition was completed in 1479 to be the main church of Moscow and where all the Tsars were crowned. The massive limestone facade, capped with its five golden cupolas was the design of Aristotele Fioravanti. Several important metropolitans and patriarchs are buried there, including Peter and Makarii. The gilded, three-domed Cathedral of the Annunciation was completed next in 1489, only to be reconstructed to a nine-domed design a century later. On the south-east of the square is the much larger Cathedral of the Archangel Michael (1508), where almost all the Muscovite monarchs from Ivan Kalita to Alexis I of Russia are interred. (Boris Godunov was originally buried there, but was moved to the Trinity Monastery.)
Church of the Twelve Apostles (1654a56) Church of the Deposition of the Robe (1488) 
There are two domestic churches of the Metropolitans and Patriarchs of Moscow, the Church of the Twelve Apostles (1653a56) and the exquisite one-domed Church of the Deposition of the Virgin's Robe, built by Pskov artisans over the years 1484a88 and featuring superb icons and frescoes from 1627 and 1644.
The other notable structure is the Ivan the Great Bell Tower on the north-east corner of the square, which is said to mark the exact centre of Moscow and resemble a burning candle. Completed in 1600, it is 81 metres (266 feet) high. Until the Russian Revolution, it was the tallest structure in the city, as construction of buildings taller than that was forbidden. Its 21 bells would sound the alarm if any enemy was approaching. The upper part of the structure was destroyed by the French during the Napoleonic Invasion and has, of course, been rebuilt. The Tsar bell, the largest bell in the world, stands on a pedestal next to the tower.
Inside the Terem Palace 
The oldest secular structure still standing is Ivan III's Palace of Facets (1491), which holds the imperial thrones. The next oldest is the first home of the royal family, the Terem Palace. The original Terem Palace was also commissioned by Ivan III, but most of the existing palace was built in the 17th century. The Terem Palace and the Palace of Facets are linked by the Grand Kremlin Palace. This was commissioned by Nicholas I in 1838. The largest structure in the Kremlin, it cost an exorbitant sum of eleven million rubles to build and more than one billion dollars to renovate in the 1990s. It contains dazzling reception halls, a ceremonial red staircase, private apartments of the tsars, and the lower storey of the Resurrection of Lazarus church (1393), which is the oldest extant structure in the Kremlin and the whole of Moscow.
The northern corner of the Kremlin is occupied by the Arsenal, which was originally built for Peter the Great in 1701. The southwestern section of the Kremlin holds the Armoury building. Built in 1851 to a Renaissance Revival design, it is currently a museum housing Russian state regalia and Diamond fund.
The haloalkaliphilic methylotrophic bacterium Methylophaga murata was first isolated from deteriorating marble in the Kremlin. [ 7 ] 
Helipad [ edit ] 
In order to stop the disruptions to Moscow traffic caused by motorcades, President Vladimir Putin authorized the construction of the Kremlin helipad. The helipad was completed in May 2013. The President will now commute back and forth to the Kremlin using a Soviet-designed Mi-8 helicopter. Careful consideration was taken in choosing the location of the helipad, the location chosen is said to be of no threat to the architecture of the Kremlin. Chairman of the Government Dmitry Medvedev has been using a helicopter for his commute in St. Petersburg since 2012.
Moscow Metro [ edit ] 
The nearest Moscow Metro stations to the Kremlin are: Biblioteka Imeni Lenina (Sokolnicheskaya Line), Arbatskaya (Arbatsko-Pokrovskaya Line), Alexandrovsky Sad (Filyovskaya Line) and Borovitskaya (Serpukhovsko-Timiryazevskaya Line).
References [ edit ] 
Notes [ edit ] 
^ "DNDDDN". Vasmer Etymological dictionary . , ^ http://vasmer.narod.ru/p321.htm (Russian) , ^ Michael C. Paul, "The Military Revolution in Russia 1550a1682", The Journal of Military History 68, No. 1 (January 2004), 31. , ^ Paul, "Military Revolution in Russia, " 31. , ^ Paul, "The Military Revolution in Russia, " 31. , ^ Rossiyskaya Gazeta. DDNDDN DNDDDDDNDDD NNDDN DNDNDDD D DDDND NDDN , ^ Doronina NV; Li TsD; Ivanova EG; Trotsenko IuA. (2005). "Methylophaga murata sp. nov.: a haloalkaliphilic aerobic methylotroph from deteriorating marble]". Mikrobiologiia 74 (4): 511a9. PMID16211855. , Bibliography [ edit ] 
Ivanov V. N. DDNDDDNDDD DNDDDN . Moscow, 1971., Nenakormova I. S. DDNNDDNNNDDDDND DNDDD DDNDDDNDDDD DNDDDN . Moscow: Iskusstvo, 1987.frt, . 
External links [ edit ] 
, Moscow portal, Russia portal, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Moscow Kremlin ., Travel2moscow.com a Official Moscow Guide, History of the Kremlin, Moscow Kremlin State Historical and Cultural Museum Sanctuary, Open Kremlin, Rare access inside the Kremlin, video news report from BBC News Online , 17 January 2013, Putin's Kremlin helipad cost $6.4 million a Official, RIA Novosti , 18 May 2013, . 
v , t , e , . Moscow Kremlin and Red Square , Kremlin Wall and Towers Borovitskaya, Vodovzvodnaya, Blagoveshenskaya, Tainitskaya, Pervaya Bezymyannaya, Vtoraya Bezymyannaya, Petrovskaya, Beklemishevskaya, Konstantino-Eleninskaya, Nabatnaya, Tsarskaya, Spasskaya, Senatskaya, Nikolskaya, Uglovaya Arsenalnaya, Srednyaya Arsenalnaya, Troitskaya, Kutafya, Komendantskaya, Oruzheynaya, . , Administrative buildings Kremlin Senate, Kremlin Presidium (Building 14), Kremlin Arsenal, Amusement Palace, State Kremlin Palace, Grand Kremlin Palace, Terem Palace, The Armory, Palace of Facets, Tsarina Golden Palace, State Historical Museum, . , Churches Cathedral of the Assumption, Cathedral of the Annunciation, Cathedral of the Archangel, Church of Saint Ioann Lestvichnik and Ivan the Great Bell Tower, Church of the Deposition of the Virgin's Robe in Vlachernon, Patriarch's Palace and the Church of the Twelve Apostles, Verkhospassky Cathedral and the Terem Churches, Cathedral of the Intercession (of Saint Basil the Blessed), Kazan Cathedral, . , Squares and gardens Red Square, Ivanovskaya Square, Cathedral Square, Taynitsky Garden, Grand Kremlin Public Garden, Alexander Garden, Manezhnaya Square, . , Monuments Kremlin Wall Necropolis, Monument to Minin and Pozharsky, Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, Place of Skulls, Tsar Cannon, Tsar Bell, . , Other Iberian Gate and Chapel, . , Former Ascension Convent, Chudov Monastery, Armorial Gate, . , v , t , e , . Russian imperial palaces and residences , Imperial residences Alexander Palace, Anichkov Palace, Catherine Palace, Gatchina Palace, Grand Kremlin Palace, Kamenny Island, Oranienbaum, Pavlovsk Palace, Peterhof Palace, Saint Michael's Castle, Winter Palace, Yelagin Palace, . , Grand ducal residences Alexis Palace, Beloselsky-Belozersky Palace, Constantine Palace, Marble Palace, Marie Palace, Michael Palace, New Michael Palace, Nicholas Palace, Tauride Palace, Vladimir Palace, . , In Crimea Dulber, Livadia Palace, Massandra Palace, . , Outside the Russian Federation Belweder, BiaAowieAa Palace, Catherinethal, Helsingfors Palace, Elisabeth Palace, Langinkoski, Likani Palace, Skierniewice Palace, . , Historical Annenhof, Catherinehof, Kolomenskoye Palace, Pella Palace, Ropsha, Babolovo, Summer Garden Palace, Summer Palace of Empress Elisabeth, . , v , t , e , . World Heritage Sites in Russia by federal district , Central Church of the Ascension in Kolomenskoye, Moscow Kremlin and Red Square, Novodevichy Convent, Trinity Sergius Lavra, White Monuments of Vladimir and Suzdal, Historic Centre of Yaroslavl, . , Southern Western Caucasus, . , Northwestern Curonian Spit 1 , Ferapontov Monastery, Kizhi Pogost, Virgin Komi Forests, Historic Monuments of Novgorod and Surroundings, Historic Centre of Saint Petersburg and Surroundings, Solovetsky Islands, Struve Geodetic Arc 2 , . , Far Eastern Lena Pillars, Volcanoes of Kamchatka, Central Sikhote-Alin, Wrangel Island, . , Siberian Golden Mountains of Altai, Lake Baikal, Putorana Plateau, Uvs Nuur Basin 3 , . , Volga Bolghar, Kazan Kremlin, . , North Caucasian Citadel, Ancient City and Fortress Buildings of Derbent, . , 1 Shared with Lithuania, 2 Shared with nine other countries, 3 Shared with Mongolia, . , Coordinates: 55A45a6aN 37A37a4aE i / i 55.75167AN 37.61778AE i / 55.75167; 37.61778 
Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Moscow_Kremlin and oldid=629909855" Categories: Moscow Kremlin, Buildings and structures in Moscow, Official residences in Russia, Palaces in Russia, Castles in Russia, World Heritage Sites in Russia, Visitor attractions in Moscow, Royal residences in Russia, Presidential palaces, Official residences, Kremlins, . Hidden categories: Use dmy dates from August 2012, Articles needing additional references from March 2009, All articles needing additional references, Articles containing Russian-language text, Commons category template with no category set, Commons category with page title same as on Wikidata, Coordinates on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
Afrikaans, OUOOOUO, AzErbaycanca, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, DNDDDNNDD, CatalA, DODDNDD, AeAtina, Cymraeg, Dansk, Deutsch, Eesti, IIIIIIII, EspaAol, Esperanto, Euskara, UOOOU, FranAais, Frysk, Gaeilge, Galego, iei, OOOOOOO, Hrvatski, Ido, Bahasa Indonesia, Italiano, aaaaaaa, DDDD, KurdA, Latina, LatvieAu, LietuviA, Magyar, DDDDDDDNDD, UOOU, UOOUOUUU, Dorerin Naoero, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, OEzbekcha, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, Sardu, Simple English, SlovenAina, SlovenAAina, DNDNDD / srpski, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Suomi, Svenska, aaaaa, DDODDO, DDNDNDNNDD, Tiang Viat, Winaray, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 16 October 2014 at 22:23.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
