
Flag of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Flag of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search See also: List of Russian flags 
Russian Federation , Name DNDDDDDN
Trikolor 
Tricolor, Use Civil and state flag and ensign, Proportion 2:3, Adopted 11 December 1993 (originally de jure from 11 May (29 April O.S.) 1696, [ 1 ] de facto since around 1700 for vessels and 1883 for land use), Design Rectangular tricolor with three equal-size horizontal bands: the upper one is white, the middle blue, and the lower red. [ 2 ] , Variant flag of Russian Federation, Name DDDNDDDNDDD NDDD
Andreyevsky flag 
St. Andrew Flag, Use Naval ensign, Adopted 1992 [ 3 ] (originally adopted in 1720 [ 4 ] ), Design White with a blue saltire., Flag of Tsar of Russia (1693) The "coat of arms flag", erroneously called "Romanov dynastic flag": the official national flag of the Russian Empire from 1858 to 1883. The flag is currently being used by Russian Nationalists and Monarchists Flag of the Russian Empire "for private use" (1914a1917) Flag of the Russian SFSR (1918-1937) Flag of the USSR (1923-1991) Flag of the Russian SFSR (1937-1954) Flag of the Russian SFSR (1954-1991) Flag of Russia (1991-1993), Proportion 1:2 
The flag of the Russian Federation is a tricolor flag consisting of three equal horizontal fields; white on the top, blue in the middle and red on the bottom.
The flag was first used as an ensign for Russian merchant ships and only became official in 1696. The flag continued to be used by the Russian Provisional Government after the Tsar was toppled in the February Revolution and was not replaced until the October Revolution which established the Russian Socialist Federative Soviet Republic - the world's first constitutionally socialist state. From that time period, a 1:2 red flag featuring the abbreviated name "RSFSR" (" DDDDD ") was used, until replaced in 1954 with the universal design of the Soviet flag with a blue stripe along the mast. It was not until the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991 that the tricolor was brought back as the official flag of the new Russian Federation. The modern era flag underwent a proportion change in 1993 and has been official since 2000.
Contents
1 History , 2 Meaning and origin of the colors , 3 Variant versions , 4 National Flag Day , 5 Naval ensign , 6 Gallery , 7 See also , 8 References , 9 External links , . 
History [ edit ] 
There was no universally accepted flag for Russia until the middle of the 17th century. The earliest mention of the flag occurs during the reign of Alexis I, in 1668, and is related to the construction of the first Russian naval ship, the frigate Oryol.
According to one source, the choice of the coulors may originate from the Dutch flag [ 5 ] and is related to the nationality of the ship's lead engineer Butler. During the construction, he faced the need for the flag, and issued a request to the Boyar Duma, to "...ask His Royal Majesty as to which (as is the custom among other nations) flag shall be raised on the ship." The official response merely indicated that, as such issue is as yet unprecedented, even though the land forces do use (apparently different) flags, the czar ordered that his (Butler's) opinion be sought about the matter, asking specifically as to the custom existing in his country. The Netherlands had at the time already settled on its current flag, consisting of red, white and blue stripes, which Butler duly told the Tsar.
This conversation apparently took notice, as the source proceeds to describe the materials bought "overseas" for the ship, and specifically mentions red, blue and white fabric. It is not at all certain, however, that the choice of the colors was affected by the Dutch flag.
A different account traces the origin of the Russian flag to czar Peter the Great's visits to Arkhangelsk in 1693 and 1694. Peter was keenly interested in shipbuilding in the European style, different from the barges ordinarily used in Russia at the time. In 1693, Peter had ordered a Dutch-built frigate from Amsterdam. In 1694 when it arrived, the Dutch red-white-and-blue banner flew from its stern. [ 6 ] Peter decided to model Russia's naval flag after this banner by changing the sequence of colors. It eventually became the flag of the Russian empire. [ 7 ] 
While differing in the circumstances, the two flag origin versions agree on the Dutch flag influence. However, there are historical reasons to doubt that the flag was chosen as late as Peter's reign. One of the strongest arguments against that comes from a Dutch flag book of 1695 by Carel Allard, which is considered to be one of the world's first flag books. Printed only a year after Peter's trip to Western Europe, the book already describes three flags of a similar design noted as belonging to the either czar of Muscovy, or Muscovy itself. One of the three flags shown is the tricolour with a double-headed eagle bearing a shield on its breast, and wearing a golden crown over both of its heads. Another is the tricolour with a blue saltire over it and the third consists of two white (top left and bottom right) and two red (top right and bottom left) squares, with a blue cross in the middle. [ 8 ] 
The flag was adopted as a merchant flag at rivers in 1705. On 7 May 1883 it was authorized to be used on land, and it became an official National flag before the coronation of Tsar Nicholas II in 1896.
Two other Slavic countries, Slovakia and Slovenia, have flags similar to the Russian one, but with added coats-of-arms for differentiation.
Meaning and origin of the colors [ edit ] 
There is no official meaning assigned to the colors of the flag. [ 9 ] Many Russians associate white with nobility, blue with honesty, and red with courage or love. [ 10 ] 
Variant versions [ edit ] 
A variant of the flag was authorized for private use by Tsar Nicholas II before World War I, adding the large State eagle on a yellow field (Imperial Standard) in a canton in the top left-hand corner. This variant was never made the official state flag.
When the Bolsheviks took power in 1917, the tricolor design was discarded, and a definitive new flag of the SFSR (one of the constituent republics of the Soviet Union) was introduced in 1954 (see flag of Russian SFSR), and this remained the republic's flag until the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. All of the Soviet Republics' flags were created by introducing a small, but noticeable change, to the flag of the Soviet Union. In this case, the change was an introduction of the left-hand blue band. The previous Soviet design was different, a plain red flag with different variants of the "RSFSR" abbreviation in the canton.
The tricolor was used by the anti-Communist forces during the Civil War called the White movement. It was continued to be used by White emigres in various countries as the Russian flag, as they did not see the Bolshevik government in Moscow as legitimate. The tricolor was associated both in Soviet Russia as well as the Russian White emigre communities as symbolizing a traditional tsarist Orthodox Russia. This flag as well as the Naval Ensign of the Imperial Russian Navy was used by anti-Communist Russian troops under German command during the Second World War. Both flags can be seen inside a few Orthodox churches in the West established by these Russian communities. In the Soviet Union, this flag was used in films set in the pre-Revolutionary period and was seen as an historical flag, especially after the 1940s.
This flag (rather than the black-yellow-white color combination) was re-adopted by Russia on 22 August 1991. The re-adoption date is celebrated yearly as the national flag day. [ citation needed ] 
The president of Russia uses a Presidential Standard (Russian: DNDDDDNN DNDDDDDDND ), which is officially defined as the tricolor with the Coat of Arms (at this case the two-headed eagle is depicted without the shield) in the middle.
National Flag Day [ edit ] 
The National Flag Day is an official holiday in Russia, established in 1994. It is celebrated on 22 August, the day of the victory over putschists in 1991, but it is not a day-off.
Naval ensign [ edit ] 
St. Andrew's flag (Russian: DDDNDDDNDDD NDDD, Andreyevskiy flag ) has a white background with two blue diagonal bands, forming a saltire cross associated with St. Andrew. The ratio of the flag's width to its length is 2:3, the width of the blue band is 1 a 10 the length of the flag.
Gallery [ edit ] 
The tricolor at Russian Consulate-General in Edinburgh
, The tricolor and the Banner of Victory on the 2009 Moscow Victory Day Parade
, Football fans with a gigantic Go Russia! banner, featuring the Russian Bear on the background of the tricolor
, Yelena Isinbayeva, a pole vault record holder, celebrating her 2007 World Championships win
, Beriev Be-200 dropping water painted into the national colors at the 2009 MAKS Airshow
, The flag in the sky over the Moscow Kremlin on the 2010 Moscow Victory Day Parade
, Flag over coffin of Anton Denikin in New York City, this was used as the Russian flag by White AmigrAs abroad during the Soviet period.
, . 
See also [ edit ] 
, Russia portal, Heraldry portal, Coat of arms of Russia, Flags of the federal subjects of Russia, Russian Navy Ensign, Flag of the Russian SFSR, Flag of the Soviet Union, Coat of arms of Moscow, List of Russian flags, Pan-Slavic colors, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ DNNDNDDNDD DDDDDDDDD D DNDDDDDDD DD DNDN NDNNDNN DDDD-NDDD-DNDNDDDD NDDDD DDNDDDDDNDND , ^ Presidentas Order No. 2126 of 11 December 1993. , ^ DDDD DDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDD DN 21 DNDN 1992 D. a 798 AD DDDDDD-DDNNDDN NDDDDN D DNDDDDDN DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDDA , ^ DDDDDD, DDNNDNDDD; DDNDDDDD, DDDDDDDN (2006). DN DDNDDDD DDNDDDN DD DDNDDDD NNNDDD. DNNDNDN DDNNDDN NDDDDD DDNNDD (1669a1725 DD.) [ From the first ship to first regulations. The history of Russian ensigns (1669a1725) ]. D-DD.: "DDNDD". p.146. ISBN5-94988-018-8. , ^ Flag T.H. Eriksen and R. Jenkins, Nation and Symbolism in Europe and America. Abingdon, 2007, p. 23 , ^ Robert K. Massie, Peter the Great, 160 (Modern Library Edition 2012) , ^ Robert Massie, Peter the Great (New York: Ballantine Books), 1980 , ^ Russian flags at Flags of the World , ^ Nee, Patrick W. Key Facts on Russia . , ^ Mis, Melody S. (2004). How to Draw Russia's Sights and Symbols . The Rosen Publishing Group. p.16. , External links [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Flags of Russia ., Russia at Flags of the World, Official image of the Russian flag, on the official site of the Russian President., Text of the constitutional law about the flag. (initial variant, without amendments), Text of the constitutional law about the flag. (with amendments of 2002a2010), Lists Russian National Flag., Historical Russian National Flag - Vexillographia. (Russian) , Lists Russian Vintage National Flag. (Russian) , National Flag and Naval Ensign in Russia Navy. (Russian) , . 
v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag , Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Flags of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia , Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . Flags of Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, Sovereign Military Order of Malta, . , v , t , e , . National flags and coats of arms , National flags Sovereign states, Dependent territories, . , National coats of arms Sovereign states, Dependent territories, . , v , t , e , . Annual Moscow Victory Parade , By year 1945, 1965, 1985, 1990, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 , 2016 , 2017 , 2018 , 2019 , . , Features Victory Banner, Flag of Russia , National Anthem of Russia, Ribbon of Saint George, Red Square, 154th Preobrazhensky Independent Commandant's Regiment, Russian Army, Russian Navy, Russian Air Force, Russian Airborne Troops, Russian Naval Aviation, Russian Naval Infantry, GRAU, Missile Forces of Strategic Importance, Russian Aerospace Defence Forces, Russian Railway Troops, Federal Security Service of Russia, Border Guard Service of Russia, Kremlin Regiment, Ministry of Internal Affairs Internal Troops of Russia, Ministry of Emergency Situations and Civil Defense, Suvorov Military School, Nakhimov Naval School, Russian Knights, Strizhi, . , Related Victory Day (9 May), Eastern Front, Great Patriotic War, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Flag_of_Russia and oldid=631340040" Categories: Events in Moscow, Aftermath of World War II in the Soviet Union and Russia, Parades in Russia, Military parades, National flags, National symbols of Russia, Flags of Russia, . Hidden categories: All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from July 2013, Articles containing Russian-language text, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, Articles with Russian-language external links, Use dmy dates from April 2011, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
aaaa, OUOOOUO, AzErbaycanca, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, Bislama, DNDDDNNDD, Bosanski, Brezhoneg, CatalA, AeAtina, Cymraeg, Dansk, Deutsch, TTTTTTTTTT, Eesti, IIIIIIII, DNDNDN, EspaAol, Esperanto, Euskara, UOOOU, FranAais, Galego, iei, OOOOOOO, aaaaaa, Hrvatski, aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa, Bahasa Indonesia, Aslenska, Italiano, aaaaaaa, DDDDD, LatvieAu, LietuviA, Magyar, DDDDDDDNDD, aaaaa, Bahasa Melayu, NAhuatl, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, OEzbekcha, PlattdAAtsch, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, DDND NNDD, SAmegiella, Scots, Shqip, Simple English, SlovenAina, DNDNDD / srpski, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Suomi, Svenska, aaa, DDODDO, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, VepsAn kela, Tiang Viat, YorAbA, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 27 October 2014 at 16:32.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
