
Civil Code of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Civil Code of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
The Russian Civil Code (Russian: DNDDDDDNDDD DDDDDN DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD , frequently abbreviated DD DD ) is the prime source of civil law for the Russian Federation. The Russian Civil Law system descended from Roman Law through Byzantine tradition. It was heavily influenced by German and Dutch norms in the 1700-1800s. Socialist-style modifications took place during the Soviet period (1922-1991) and Continental European Law influences since the 1990s.
The Civil Code of the Russian Federation came into force in four parts. The first part, which deals with general provisions (i.e. defines sources, names legal entities etc.) was enacted by the State Duma in 1994 and entered into force in 1995. The second part (dealing with the Law of obligations) entered into force in 1996. The third part (Succession law) entered into force in 2002. The document has certain basic principles: equality of all participants guaranteed by civil law, inviolability of private property, freedom of contract, free exercise of civil rights and juridical protection of civil rights.
The fourth part, dealing with intellectual property, was signed into law on December 18, 2006 and came into force on January 1, 2008. Part IV became the first truly complete codification of the legislation on intellectual property in the world.
Contents
1 The structure of the Civil Code , 2 History , 3 See also , 4 References , 5 External links , . 
The structure of the Civil Code [ edit ] 
Part 1 Section I: General provisions, Section II: Ownership and other proprietary interests, Section III: The general part of the law of obligations, . , Part 2 Section IV: Specific types of obligations, . , Part 3 Section V: Succession law, Section VI: International private law, . , Part 4 Section VII: The right to products of intellectual activity and means of individualization, . , . 
Unlike most European civil codes, the Russia's Civil Code does not cover family law. Instead, family law is dealt with in a separate code.
History [ edit ] 
Since its foundation as an independent successor state of the former Soviet Union, the Russian Federation had been engaged in a large legislative project of developing a new Civil Code. In July 1994, President Boris Yeltsin signed a decree authorizing the "Establishment and Development of Private Law in Russia" program. [ 1 ] The program called for a group of legal researchers, led by Sergei Alekseev, to create a new civil code for the nation. Initially, Russian politicians on all sides of the political spectrum opposed the idea of a Civil Code. [ 2 ] It took significant effort to get first part of the Code approved by the State Duma a while the Federation Council voted against the Code. However, the Federation Council took longer than allowed by the Constitution to come to its decision. This allowed Yeltsin to sign the Code into law. In other words, as Sergei Alekseev put it, the Civil Code became law almost "by accident". [ 2 ] 
See also [ edit ] 
Law of the Russian Federation, Criminal Code of Russia, Offences Code of Russia, Family Code of Russia, Customs Code of Russia, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ (Russian) DDDD DNDDDDDDND DD DN 7 DNDN 1994 D. N 1473 "D DNDDNDDDD "DNDDDDDDDDD D NDDDDNDD NDNNDDDD DNDDD D DDNNDD" , ^ a b (Russian) Fan, Irina (June 2003), DDNDD DNDNNDDDN a D DNNDDD DNDDD , Nauka Urala 13 (841) , External links [ edit ] 
Full text English translation of parts 1 to 3 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation. Old edition on December 23, 2003, after this date many changes were made., Full text English translation of part 4 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation made by Rospatent in 2011., Russian Federation, Federal law no. 231- DD of 2006: DDDDNDDNDND DDDDD DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD DN 18 DDDDDNN 2006 D. N 231-D3 D DDDDDDDD D DDDNNDDD NDNND NDNDDNNDD DNDDDDDNDDDD DDDDDND DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD . Law 231-FL of December 18, 2006: implementation act for part IV of the Civil Code. In Russian. URL last accessed 2010-07-13., . 
v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Civil_Code_of_Russia and oldid=611807539" Categories: Russian law, Civil codes, . Hidden categories: Articles with Russian-language external links, Articles containing Russian-language text, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DDNODNNND, Deutsch, LietuviA, aeaee, Polski, DNNNDDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 6 June 2014 at 11:28.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
