
North Caucasus - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
North Caucasus 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
North Caucasus regions within the Russian Federation The village of Tindi, in Dagestan, in the late 1890s. 
The North Caucasus (or Ciscaucasia ; Russian: DDDDNDND DDDDDD ) is the northern part of the Caucasus region between the Black and Caspian Seas and within European Russia. The term is also used as a synonym for the North Caucasus economic region of Russia.
Politically, the Northern Caucasus (territory north of the Greater Caucasus Range) includes the Russian Republics of the North Caucasus. As part of the Russian Federation, the Northern Caucasus region is included in the North Caucasian and Southern Federal Districts and consists of Krasnodar Krai, Stavropol Krai, and the constituent republics, approximately from west to east: Republic of Adygea, KarachayaCherkessia, Kabardino-Balkaria, North OssetiaaAlania, Ingushetia, Chechnya, and Republic of Dagestan. [ 1 ] Since October 2007, separatists and Caucasus Front soldiers led by Dokka Umarov and Akhmed Yevloyev have claimed all of the North Caucasian regions from KarachayaCherkessia to the Caspian Sea as part of their territory invaded by Russia during the 18th century that expelled most of the Caucasians towards Turkey, Iran, Bulgaria, Syria, and Jordan. This proclaimed Caucasus Emirate has been met with opposition within the Caucasus region from the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria. [ citation needed ] 
Geographically, the term North Caucasus comprises the northern slope and western extremity of the Caucasus Major mountain range, as well as a part of its southern slope to the West (until the Psou River). The Forecaucasus steppe area is often also encompassed under the notion of "North Caucasus", thus the northern boundary of the geographical region is generally considered to be the Kuma-Manych Depression. It is bounded by the Sea of Azov and Kerch Strait on the west, and the Caspian Sea on the east. According to the Concise Atlas of the World, Second Edition (2008), most of the Ciscaucasian region lies on the European side of the "commonly accepted division" that separates Europe from Asia.
In 2011, the Russian government has put forward plans to create a Caucasian version of Silicon Valley, at a cost of 32 billion rubles ($1.1 billion) as part of on-going efforts to generate opportunities in the troubled Russian region. [ 2 ] 
See also [ edit ] 
Caucasian War, Caucasus Emirate, Caucasus Imamate, Dolmens of North Caucasus, Insurgency in the North Caucasus, Kuban People's Republic, List of clashes in the North Caucasus, Mountainous Republic of the Northern Caucasus, North Caucasian Federal District, North Caucasian Soviet Republic, Peoples of the Caucasus, South Caucasus (Transcaucasia), . 
References [ edit ] 
^ A small schematic map of the regions can be seen at , ^ Silicon Valley planned for Russia's North Caucasus , Further reading [ edit ] 
In Quest for God and Freedom: Sufi Responses to the Russian Advance in the North Caucasus by Anna Zelkina, Russia in the Modern World: A New Geography by Denis J. B. Shaw, Institute of British Geographers, . 
External links [ edit ] 
Media related to North Caucasus at Wikimedia Commons, Silicon Valley planned for Russia's North Caucasus, Relations between The North and South Caucasus. Articles in the Caucasus Analytical Digest No. 27, . 
v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus , Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=North_Caucasus and oldid=619837376" Categories: North Caucasus, Caucasus, Geography of the Caucasus, Eastern Europe, Western Asia, Traditional subdivisions of Russia, Ossetia, Regions of Russia, Southern Russia, . Hidden categories: Russia articles missing geocoordinate data, All articles needing coordinates, Articles containing Russian-language text, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from January 2011, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DDNDNDDN, OUOOOUO, AvaAe'a, DDDN, AzErbaycanca, aaaaa, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, DNDDDNNDD, CatalA, DODDNDD, AeAtina, Cymraeg, Deutsch, Eesti, EspaAol, Esperanto, Euskara, UOOOU, FranAais, iei, OOOOOOO, Bahasa Indonesia, DNDD, Italiano, DNDNDNDD-DDDDNDN, aaaaaaa, ODDDOND, LatvieAu, LietuviA, Bahasa Melayu, Nederlands, aeaee, DDNNDDD, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, Simple English, SlovenAina, Suomi, Svenska, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, OOOU, Zazaki, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 4 August 2014 at 16:32.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
