
North Asia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
North Asia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, It has been suggested that this article be merged into Siberia . (Discuss) Proposed since August 2014. , North Asia United Nations geoscheme for Asia based on statistic convenience rather than implying any assumption regarding political or other affiliation of countries or territories: Siberia -part of UN Eastern Europe subregion Central Asia Western Asia South Asia East Asia Southeast Asia 
North Asia or Northern Asia is a subregion of Asia, consisting of Siberia in the Asian portion of Russia a the area east of the Ural Mountains.
Contents
1 Demographics , 2 Geography 2.1 Geomorphology , . , 3 See also , 4 References , . 
Demographics [ edit ] 
Further information: Demographics of Siberia, Indigenous peoples of Siberia and Demographics of the Russian Far East 
Most estimates are that there are around 38 million of Russians living east of the Ural Mountains, a widely recognized but informal divide between Europe and Asia. The Indigenous Siberians now are a minority in Siberia/North Asia/ due to the European-oriented Russification process during the last three centuries. Russian census records indicate they make up only an estimated 10f the region's population with the Buryats numbering at 445, 175, which makes them the largest ethnic minority group in Siberia. There are 443, 852 Yakuts (Russian Census of 2002) living in Siberia. [ 1 ] According to the 2002 census there are 500, 000 Tatars in Siberia, but 300, 000 of them are Volga Tatars who settled in Siberia during periods of colonization. [ 2 ] Other ethnic groups that live in the region and make a significant portion are ethnic Germans and they number at about 400, 000.
In 1875, Chambers reported the population of Northern Asia to be 8 million. [ 3 ] Between 1801 and 1914 an estimated 7 million settlers moved from European Russia to Siberia, 85uring the quarter-century before World War I. [ 4 ] 
Geography [ edit ] 
Further information: Geography of Siberia and Geography of Russia A Northeast Siberia and Kamchatka 
Gulf of Ob Novaya Zemlya Kara Sea Yenisei Ob , Taymyr Peninsula Severnaya Zemlya Arctic Ocean Central Siberian Plateau Siberian Federal District , Lena Sakha Republic Laptev Sea New Siberian Islands Kolyma Verkhoyansk Range , Urals Federal District Kazakhstan Ob Irtysh Altai Tian Shan Syr Darya Taklamakan Himalayas Pamir Hindukush Tibetan , Lake Baikal Mongolia Gobi North China Plain Yangtze Plain Plateau , Stanovoy Range Manchuria Korea Sakhalin Amur Sea of Okhotsk Japan Pacific Ocean , Physical map of Northern Asia. 
For geographic and statistical reasons, the UN geoscheme and various other classification schemes will not subdivide countries and thus place all of Russia in the Europe or Eastern Europe subregion.
There are no mountain chains in Northern Asia to prevent air currents from the Arctic flowing down over the plains of Siberia and Turkestan. [ 3 ] 
The plateau and plains of Northern Asia comprise the West Siberian lowlands; the Angara Shield, with the Taimyr Peninsula, the coastal lowlands, the Putorana Plateau, the Anabar Plateau, the Tunguska Plateau, and the Angara Plateau; and the LenaaVilyuy Basin. [ 5 ] 
Geomorphology [ edit ] 
Further information: Geology of Russia and Geology of Asia 
The geomorphology of Asia in general is imperfectly known, although the deposits and mountain ranges are well known. [ 5 ] 
To compensate for new sea floor having been created in the Siberian basin, the whole of the Asian Plate has pivoted about a point in the New Siberian Islands, causing compression in the Verkhoyansk mountains, which were formed along the eastern margin of the Angara Shield by tectonic uplift during the Mesozoic Era. There is a southern boundary to this across the northern margin of the Alpine folds of Iran, Afghanistan, India, Nepal, and Bhutan, which at the east of Brahmaputra turns to run south towards the Bay of Bengal along the line of the Naga hills and the Arakan Yoma, continues around Indonesia, and follows the edge of the continental shelf along the eastern seaboard of China. The Eurasian Plate and the North American Plate meet across the neck of Alaska, following the line of the Aleutian Trench, rather than meeting at the Bering Straits. [ 5 ] 
Northern Asia is built around the Angara Shield, which lies between the Yenisey River and the Lena River. It developed from fragments of Laurasia, whose rocks were mainly Precambrian crystalline rocks, gneisses, and schists, and Gondwana. These rocks can be found in the Angara Shield, the Inner Mongolian-Korean Shield, the Ordes Shield and the Southeast Asia Shield. The fragments have been subject to orogenesis around their margins, giving a complex of plateaux and mountain ranges. One can find outcrops of these rocks in unfolded sections of the Shields. Their presence has been confirmed below Mesozoic and later sediments. [ 5 ] 
There are three main periods of mountain building in Northern Asia, although it has occurred many times. The outer fold mountains, that are on the margins of the Shields and that only affected Asia north of the line of the Himalayas, are attributed to the Caledonian and Hercynian orogenies of the late Palaeozoic Era. The Alpine orogeny caused extensive folding and faulting of Mesozoic and early Tertiary sediments from the Tethys geosyncline. The Tibetan and Mongolian plateaux, and the structural basins of Tarim, Qaidam, and Junggar, are delimited by major east-west lithospheric faults that were probably the results of stresses caused by the impact of the Indian Plate against Laurasia. Erosion of the mountains caused by this orogeny has created a large amount of sediment, which has been transported southwards to produce the alluvial plains of India, China, and Cambodia, and which has also been deposited in large amounts in the Tarim and Dzungarian basins. [ 5 ] 
Northern Asia was glaciated in the Pleistocene, but this played a less significant part in the geology of the area compared to the part that it played in North America and Europe. The Scandinavian ice sheet extended to the east of the Urals, covering the northern two thirds of the Ob Basin and extending onto the Angara Shield between the Yenisei River and the Lena River. There are legacies of mountain glaciation to be found on the east Siberian mountains, on the mountains of the Kamchatka Peninsula, on the Altai, on Tian Shan, and on other small areas of mountains, ice caps remain on the islands of Severnaya Zemlya and Novaya Zemlya, and several Central Asian mountains still have individual glaciers. North Asia itself has permafrost, ranging in depths from 30 to 600 metres and covering an area of 9.6 million kmA. [ 5 ] 
Several of the mountainous regions are volcanic, with both the Koryak Mountains and the Kamchatka Peninsula having active volcanoes. The Anadyr plateau is formed from igneous rocks. The Mongolian plateau has an area of basaltic lavas and volcanic cones. [ 5 ] 
The Angara Shield also underlies the lowlands of the Ob River, but to the south and east in the Central Asian mountains and in the East Siberian mountains there are folded and faulted mountains of Lower Palaeozoic rocks. [ 5 ] TOGE PA
See also [ edit ] 
, Russia portal, Wikimedia Commons has media related to North Asia ., Russia Russian Far East, Siberia, . , Siberian High, a semipermament anticyclone, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ Siberian Germans , ^ Siberian Tatars , ^ a b William Chambers and Robert Chambers (1875). Chambers's Information for the People . London and Edinburgh: W. and R. Chambers. pp.274a276. , ^ The Great Siberian Migration: Government and Peasant in Resettlement from Emancipation to the First World War , ^ a b c d e f g h Edwin Michael Bridges (1990). "Northern Asia". World Geomorphology . Cambridge University Press. pp.124a126. ISBN0-521-28965-3. , v , t , e , . Asiatopics , History 
Chronology Indian Ocean trade, Silk Road, Imperialism, Decolonisation, . , By topic Military conflicts, . , Sovereignty, . , Geography 
Cities metropolitan areas, tallest buildings, . , Countries and territories by population, . , Extreme points, Islands, Lakes, Mountains, Rivers, . , Regions Asia-Pacific, Central Asia, East Asia, Eurasia, North Asia , South Asia, Southeast Asia, Western Asia, . , Politics 
Heads of government, Heads of state, Law, Politics, . , Intergovernmental Asia Cooperation Dialogue (ACD), Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), Bay of Bengal Initiative (BIMSTEC), Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO), Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (CCASG/ GCC), MekongaGanga Cooperation (MGC), Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC), Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), . , Economy 
Countries by GDP (PPP), Countries by HDI, Currencies, Stock exchanges, Technology renewable energy, . , Transport airports, high-speed rail, . , . , Markets Bond markets, Property markets, . , Society 
Demographics, Education, Etiquette, Languages, People ethnic groups, . , . , Culture Art, Cinema, Cuisine, Literature, Music, Philosophy, Religion, Sport, . , Future Asian Century Chinese Century, Indian Century, Pacific Century, . , . , Outline, Index, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, Maps, . , v , t , e , . Countries and dependencies of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Palestine, Philippines, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and special
administrative regions 
Australia Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, . , China Hong Kong, Macau, . , United Kingdom Akrotiri and Dhekelia, British Indian Ocean Territory, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia , Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=North_Asia and oldid=629277893" Categories: Regions of Asia, North Asia, ChinaaRussia border, ChinaaKazakhstan border, ChinaaMongolia border, MongoliaaRussia border, KazakhstanaRussia border, Regions of Russia, . Hidden categories: Articles to be merged from August 2014, All articles to be merged, World Digital Library related, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, AzErbaycanca, BAn-lAm-gA, DNDDDNNDD, Bosanski, Brezhoneg, CatalA, AeAtina, Cymraeg, Deutsch, Eesti, EspaAol, Esperanto, Euskara, UOOOU, FranAais, iei, OOOOOOO, Hrvatski, Bahasa Indonesia, Aslenska, Italiano, Basa Jawa, aaaaaaa, Kiswahili, LatvieAu, LietuviA, Magyar, DDDDDDDNDD, Bahasa Melayu, DDDDDD, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, aaaaaa, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, SlovenAina, SlovenAAina, DNDNDD / srpski, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Basa Sunda, Suomi, Svenska, Tagalog, aaaaa, DDNDNND/tatarAa, aaa, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, OOOU, Tiang Viat, Winaray, ae, YorAbA, Zazaki, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 12 October 2014 at 08:34.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
