
Officer of the court - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Officer of the court 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (August 2013) , This article includes a list of references, but its sources remain unclear because it has insufficient inline citations . Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (August 2013) , In the United States, the generic term officer of the court (not to be confused with court officers ) is applied to all those who, in some degree in function of their professional or similar qualifications, have a legal partaand hence legal and deontological obligationsain the complex functioning of the judicial system as a whole, in order to forge justice out of the application of the law and the simultaneous pursuit of the legitimate interests of all parties and the general good of society.
They can be divided into the following functional groups; in most case various synonyms and parallels exist as well as a variety of operational variations, depending on the jurisdiction and the changes in relevant legislation:
Contents
1 Court proper , 2 Investigation and expertise , 3 Services to the parties , 4 Sources and references , . 
Court proper [ edit ] 
Foremost those who make the decisions that determine the course of justice and its outcome:
judges, magistrates and arbitrators, prosecutors, attorneys for each party - the Supreme Court of the United States held in Ex parte Garland [ 1 ] that "Attorneys and counselors are not officers of the United States; they are officers of the court, admitted as such by its order upon evidence of their possessing sufficient legal learning and fair private character." In some jurisdictions, such as England and Wales, independent advocates such as barristers are not officers of the court. [ citation needed ] , . 
Investigation and expertise [ edit ] 
These are, like the accidental witness, though not in chief of accidental access to relevant information but through their skills, experience and equipment, used to provide information to the actual decision makers above
coroners, medical examiners, and other medical experts, other judicial experts in various fields, such as state certified appraisers, certified public accountants and other professionally licensed or certified persons retained by the parties to give expert advice, the testimony and exhibits of which is admitted by the Court. amicus curiae is a vague term for other persons consulted by the court, marshal, sheriff, constable, . , . 
Services to the parties [ edit ] 
Bail bondsmen, who may however undertake action to capture an absconding client, Interpreters/translators are generally considered officers of the court. They render their services to the parties in the interests of the court proceedings. There are interpreters who may be employed on a permanent basis by courts to act as interpreters when called upon, e.g. International Court of Justice and the European Court of Justice. In some jurisdictions interpreters may also be deemed as officers of the court pro tempore . Court interpreters and translators have an absolute ethical duty to tell judges the truth and avoid evasion., Court Appointed Special Advocates in some jurisdictions are considered officers of the court., Process servers carry out service of process. In some jurisdictions they are appointed by a court and are considered appointed officers of the court., . 
Sources and references [ edit ] 
^ Ex parte Garland , 71 U. S. 333 (1866) , Law.com, Publications bibliography, . Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Officer_of_the_court and oldid=606953221" Categories: Legal ethics, Legal professions, Legal terms, . Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from August 2013, All articles needing additional references, Articles lacking in-text citations from August 2013, All articles lacking in-text citations, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from August 2013, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
Deutsch, Esperanto, LietuviA, Polski, . Edit links This page was last modified on 3 May 2014 at 22:27.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
