
Politics of Oman - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of Oman 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (March 2011) , Oman , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Oman , Sultan Qaboos , Cabinet, Council Council of State Consultative Assembly , Recent elections General: 2003, 2007, 2011, . , Administrative divisions Governorates Provinces , Human rights, Foreign relations, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , Politics of Oman takes place in a framework of an absolute monarchy whereby the Sultan of Oman is not only head of state, but also the head of government. Chief of state and government is the hereditary sultan, QAbAs ibn SaEAd as-SaEAd, who appoints a cabinet to assist him. Sultan Qaboos also serves as supreme commander of the armed forces, prime minister, and minister of defense, foreign affairs, and finance.
Contents
1 The monarchy , 2 Judicial system , 3 Administrative divisions , 4 The Consultative Council , 5 Political parties and elections , 6 Foreign relations 6.1 International organization participation , . , 7 Notes and references , 8 External links , . 
The monarchy [ edit ] 
The Sultan is a direct descendant of Usman Sa'id bin Sultan, who first opened relations with the United States in 1833. The Sultanate has neither political parties nor legislature, although the bicameral representative bodies provide the government with advice. The present Sultan has no direct heir, and has not publicly designated a successor. Instead, the ruling family should unanimously designate a new Sultan after his death. If they do not designate a new ruler after three days, then they open a letter left to them by the deceased Sultan, containing a recommendation for a new Sultan.
Current Sultan of Oman, His Majesty Sultan Qaboos bin Saaid Al aBu Saaid holds an extraordinary amount of power. Along with his position as Sultan, he is prime minister, defense minister, finance minister, foreign affairs minister and chair of the central bank. Moreover, Qaboos has only a few family members in his cabinet and the offices they hold are considered quite powerless. His cousin Haythim for example, is minister of national heritage and culture while his uncle, Shabib is special advisor for environmental affairs. This style of governance has implications as none of his family members have acquired the necessary administrative skills to rule Oman after Qaboos death. [ 1 ] 
Judicial system [ edit ] 
The court system in Oman is regulated by Royal Decree 90/99. There are three court levels in Oman, the Elementary Court is the lowest court, followed by the Court of Appeal, and then the Supreme Court as the highest court in the country.
In addition to this there is an Administrative Court that looks into cases made against the government.
Administrative divisions [ edit ] 
Administratively, the populated regions are divided into 59 districts (wilayats), presided over by governors (walis) responsible for settling local disputes, collecting taxes, and maintaining peace. Most wilayats are small; an exception is the wilayat of Dhofar, which comprises the whole province. The wali of Dhofar is an important government figure, holding cabinet rank, while other walis operate under the guidance of the Ministry of Interior.
The Consultative Council [ edit ] 
In November 1991, Sultan Qaboos replaced the 10-year-old State Consultative Council with the Consultative Assembly ( Majlis al-Shura ) to systematize and broaden public participation in government. The Assembly has 84 elected members and exercise some legislative powers. Representatives were chosen in the following manner: Local caucuses in each of the 59 districts sent forward the names of three nominees, whose credentials were reviewed by a cabinet committee. These names were then forwarded to the Sultan, who made the final selection. The Consultative Assembly serves as a conduit of information between the people and the government ministries. It is empowered to review drafts of economic and social legislation prepared by service ministries, such as communications and housing, and to provide recommendations. Service ministers also may be summoned before the Majlis to respond to representatives' questions. It has no authority in the areas of foreign affairs, defense, security, and finances. The Council of State ( Majlis al-Dawla ) has 83 appointed members including 14 women.
Political parties and elections [ edit ] 
Oman does not allow political parties and only holds elections with expanding suffrage for a consultative assembly. The previously influential opposition movement, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Oman, is dormant today. The last elections were held on 15 October 2011.
ead Summary of the 27 October 2007 Consultative Assembly of Oman election results Members Seats Elected non-partisans, 84, Total (turnout /td> 84 , v , t , e , . Elections in Oman , General elections 1991, 1994, 1997, 2000, 2003, 2007, 2011, . , Foreign relations [ edit ] 
Although Oman enjoys a high degree of internal stability, regional tensions in the aftermath of the Persian Gulf War and the Iran-Iraq war continue to necessitate large defense expenditures. In 2001, Oman budgeted $2.4 billion for defenseaabout 33f its gross domestic product. Oman maintains a small but professional and effective military, supplied mainly with British equipment in addition to items from the United States, France, and other countries. British officers, on loan or on contract to the Sultanate, help staff the armed forces, although a program of "Omanization" has steadily increased the proportion of Omani officers over the past several years.
After North and South Yemen merged in May 1990, Oman settled its border disputes with the new Republic of Yemen on 1 October 1992. The two neighbors have cooperative bilateral relations. Oman's borders with all neighbors are demarcated.
International organization participation [ edit ] 
Oman participates in ABEDA, AFESD, AL, AMF, ESCWA, FAO, G-77, GCC, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OIC, OPCW, United Nations, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO.
Notes and references [ edit ] 
^ Katz, Mark. "Assessing the Political Stability of Oman." Middle East Review of International Affairs Volume 8, No. 3, September 2004 , External links [ edit ] 
Government of Oman at the Ministry of Information, Sultanate of Oman List of current Ministers, . , Oman from the CIA's Chiefs of State and Cabinet Members list, Omani Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Tawasul - Empowerment of Civil Society in Oman, Adam Carr's Election Archive, Oman Government at DMOZ, . 
v , t , e , . Politics of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman , Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . Elections in Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_Oman and oldid=621998985" Categories: Politics of Oman, Elections in Oman, Lists of political parties by country, . Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from March 2011, All articles needing additional references, Articles with DMOZ links, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, aaaaa, DNDDDNNDD, FranAais, PortuguAs, . Edit links This page was last modified on 20 August 2014 at 01:54.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
