
Politics of Pakistan - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of Pakistan 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2013) , Pakistan , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Pakistan , Constitution Parliament Senate Chairman: Nayyar H. Bukhari , National Assembly Speaker: Sardar A. Sadiq Deputy Speaker , . , Government President (list) Mamnoon Hussain , Prime Minister (list) Nawaz Sharif , Federal Cabinet, . , Governors Punjab Mohammad Sarwar , Balochistan Muhammad Khan Achakzai , Sindh Ishrat-ul-Ibad Khan , Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Mehtab Ahmed Khan Abbasi , GilgitaBaltistan Karam Ali Shah , . , Chief Ministers Punjab Shahbaz Sharif , Sindh Qaim Ali Shah , Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Pervez Khattak , Balochistan Abdul Malik Baloch , Gilgit-Baltistan Syed Mehdi Shah , . , Judiciary Supreme Judicial Council, Supreme Court Chief Justice , Federal Shariat Court Chief Justices , Islamabad High Court, Provincial High Courts, District Courts, . , Political parties Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal, Muttahida Qaumi Movement, Pakistan Peoples Party, Pakistan Muslim League (N), Pakistan Muslim League (Q), Jamaat-e-Islami, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf, Awami National Party, Minor parties , . , Elections Election Commission, Electoral College, Recent elections Presidential: 2008, 2007, 2004, . General: 2013, 2008, 2002, . , . , Administrative units Balochistan, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Punjab, Sindh, Capital Territory, Tribal areas, Azad Kashmir, GilgitaBaltistan, . , Local government Districts, Tehsils, Union councils, . , Foreign relations IndiaaPakistan relations, Kashmir conflict, Embassies, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , This article contains Urdu text. Without proper rendering support, you may see unjoined letters running left to right or other symbols instead of Urdu script., The Politics of Pakistan (Urdu: OUOOO UOUOOOU a) is practiced and takes place within the framework under which the country is established. A Nation-state, Pakistan's governing structure is composed as the Islamic, federal, and parliamentary republic. As Constitution's stipulations provided a delicate balance of sharing powers between the Executive, Parliament, and Judiciary are reserved as the federal government shares sovereignty with the provincial governments.
The executive branch (or government) is headed by the Prime Minister of Pakistan and is independent of the legislature. The Parliament is composed as a bicameral institution which is vested in the two chambers of Parliamenta the Senate and the National Assembly. Although, the President of Pakistan is a ceremonial figurehead to represent the unity of a nation-state; the Presidency is also a vital part of the Parliament. The Judicature consists of the Supreme Court, high courts (including district, anti-terrorism, and green courts) exercises judicial power (or judiciary). The judiciary's function is to interpret the Constitution and federal laws and regulations.
Contents
1 Executive branch , 2 Legislative branch 2.1 Senate , 2.2 National Assembly , . , 3 Political parties and elections 3.1 Composition of Parliament (As per Results of the 2008 General Elections) , . , 4 Judicial branch 4.1 Supreme Court , 4.2 Federal Shariat Court of Pakistan , 4.3 Provincial and High Courts , 4.4 Ombudsman/Mohtasib , . , 5 Political background , 6 Form of Government 6.1 Kashmir in Pakistani politics , 6.2 Provincial Governments , 6.3 Local Governments , . , 7 Top 5 Parties Votes and Seats in General Elections 7.1 General Elections, 2008 , 7.2 General Elections, 2013 , . , 8 Foreign relations , 9 See also , 10 References , 11 External links , . 
Executive branch [ edit ] 
The president of Pakistan, in keeping with the constitutional provision that the state religion is Islam, must be a Muslim. Elected for a five-year term by an Electoral College consisting of members of the Senate and National Assembly and members of the provincial assemblies, the president is eligible for re-election. But no individual may hold the office for more than two consecutive terms. The president may resign or be impeached and may be removed from office due to incapacity or gross misconduct by a two-thirds vote of the members of the parliament. The president generally acts on the advice of the prime minister but has important residual powers.
One of the most important of these powersaa legacy of General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haqais the president's power to dissolve the National Assembly "in his discretion where, in has arisen in which the Government of the Federation cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and an appeal to the electorate is necessary." This power has twice been grantedaby the Eighth Amendment in 1985 and by the Seventeenth Amendment in 2003aand has twice been revokedaby the Thirteenth Amendment in 1997 and by the Eighteenth Amendment in 2010. Despite this most recent power-stripping, the President remains the ex officio chair of the National Security Council, as per the National Security Act 2004.
The prime minister is appointed by the members of the National Assembly through a vote. The prime minister is assisted by the Federal Cabinet, a council of ministers whose members are appointed by the president on the advice of the prime minister. The Federal Cabinet comprises the ministers, ministers of state, and advisers. As of early 1994, there were thirty-three ministerial portfolios: commerce; communications; culture; defence; defence production; education; environment; finance and economic affairs; food and agriculture; foreign affairs; health; housing; information and broadcasting; interior; Kashmiri affairs and Northern Areas; law and justice; local government; minority affairs; narcotics control; parliamentary affairs; petroleum and natural resources production; planning and development; railways; religious affairs; science and technology; social welfare; special education; sports; state and frontier regions; tourism; water and power; women's development; and youth affairs.
Legislative branch [ edit ] 
The bicameral federal legislature consists of the Senate (upper house) and National Assembly (lower house). According to Article 50 of the Constitution, the National Assembly, the Senate and the President together make up a body known as the Majlis-i-Shoora (Council of Advisers).
Pakistan's democracy has no recall method. However, past governments have been dismissed for corruption by the President's invocation of Article 58 of the Constitution. The President's power to dismiss the Prime Minister and dissolve the National Assembly was removed by the Thirteenth Amendment and partially restored by the Seventeenth Amendment.
Senate [ edit ] 
The Senate is a permanent legislative body with equal representation from each of the four provinces, elected by the members of their respective provincial assemblies. There are representatives from the Federally Administered Tribal Areas and from Islamabad Capital Territory. The chairman of the Senate, under the constitution, is next in line to act as president should the office become vacant and until such time as a new president can be formally elected. Both the Senate and the National Assembly can initiate and pass legislation except for finance bills. Only the National Assembly can approve the federal budget and all finance bills. In the case of other bills, the president may prevent passage unless the legislature in joint sitting overrules the president by a majority of members of both houses present and voting. Unlike the National Assembly, the Senate cannot be dissolved by the President.
National Assembly [ edit ] 
National Assembly of Pakistan 
Members of the National Assembly are elected by universal adult suffrage (formerly twenty-one years of age and older but the seventeenth amendment changed it to eighteen years of age.). Seats are allocated to each of the four provinces, the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, and Islamabad Capital Territory on the basis of population. National Assembly members serve for the parliamentary term, which is five years, unless they die or resign sooner, or unless the National Assembly is dissolved. Although the vast majority of the members are Muslim, about 5 percent of the seats are reserved for minorities, including Christians, Hindus, and Sikhs. Elections for minority seats are held on the basis of separate electorates at the same time as the polls for Muslim seats during the general elections. There are also 50+ special seats for women now, and women are selected (i.e. not directly elected in the general election but given representation according to how their parties performed in the general election) on these seat by their party head: another seventeenth amendment innovation.
Political parties and elections [ edit ] 
For other political parties see List of political parties in Pakistan. An overview on elections and election results is included in Elections in Pakistan. 
Composition of Parliament (As per Results of the 2008 General Elections) [ edit ] 
Parties Votes th> Elected 5467 71, 17, 3, 95, Pakistan Muslim League (Q), 7, 989, 817, 23.0td> 42, 10, 2, 55, Muttahida Qaumi Movement, 2, 507, 813, 7.4td> 19, 5, 1, 25, Awami National Party, 700, 479, 2.0td> 10, 3, 0, 13, Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal Pakistan Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (F), . 
Note: Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan, Jamiat Ulema-e-Pakistan, Tehrik-e-Jafaria Pakistan and Jamiat Ahle Hadith did not participate. 
, 772, 798, 2.2td> 5, 1, 0, 6, Pakistan Muslim League (F), 4, 1, 0, 5, Pakistan Peoples Party (Sherpao), 140, 707, 0.4td> 1, 0, 0, 1, National Peoples Party, 1, 0, 0, 1, Balochistan National Party (Awami), 1, 0, 0, 1, Independents, 18, 0, 0, 18, Total , 34, 665, 978 , 100b>, 266 , 60 , 10 , 336 , Source: Election Commission of Pakistan, Adam Carr's Electoral Archive, Judicial branch [ edit ] 
The judiciary includes the Supreme Court, provincial high courts, District and sessions Courts, Civil and Magistrate courts exercising civil and criminal jurisdiction. [ 1 ] Some federal and provincial courts and tribunals such as Services court, Income tax and excise court, Banking court and Boards of Revenue's Tribunals are as well established in all provinces.
Supreme Court [ edit ] 
The Supreme Court has original, appellate, and advisory jurisdiction. The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court is appointed by the president; the other Supreme Court judges are appointed by the president after consultation with the chief justice. The chief justice and judges of the Supreme Court may remain in office until age sixty-five: now 68 years and this is also another clause of seventeenth amendment.
Federal Shariat Court of Pakistan [ edit ] 
The Federal Shariat Court (FSC) of Pakistan is a court which has the power to examine and determine whether the laws of the country comply with Shari'a law. It consists of 8 Muslim judges appointed by the President of Pakistan after consulting the Chief Justice of this Court, from amongst the serving or retired judges of the Supreme Court or a High Court or from amongst persons possessing the qualifications of judges of a High Court. Of the 8 judges, 3 are required to be Ulema who are well versed in Islamic law. The judges hold office for a period of 3 years, which may eventually be extended by the President. Appeal against its decisions lie to the Shariat Appellate Bench of the Supreme Court, consisting of 3 Muslim judges of the Supreme Court and 2 Ulema, appointed by the President. If any part of the law is declared to be against Islamic law, the government is required to take necessary steps to amend such law appropriately. The court also exercises revisional jurisdiction over the criminal courts, deciding Hudood cases. The decisions of the court are binding on the High Courts as well as subordinate judiciary. The court appoints its own staff and frames its own rules of procedure. Ever since its establishment in 1980, the Federal Shariat Court of Pakistan has been the subject of criticism and controversy in the society. Created as an islamisation measure by the military regime and subsequently protected under the controversial 8th Amendment, its opponents question the very rationale and utility of this institution. It is stated that this court merely duplicates the functions of the existing superior courts and also operates as a check on the sovereignty of Parliament. The composition of the court, particularly the mode of appointment of its judges and the insecurity of their tenure, is taken exception to, and it is alleged, that this court does not fully meet the criterion prescribed for the independence of the judiciary. That is to say, it is not immune to pressures and influences from the Executive. In the past, this court was used as a refuge for the recalcitrant judges. And whereas some of its judgments, particularly the ones which relying on the Islamic concept of equity, justice and fair play, expanded and enlarged the scope and contents of individualas rights were commended, others that tend to restrict the rights of women, are severely criticised and deplored.
Provincial and High Courts [ edit ] 
In every province, there is one High Court.Currently all four provinces Punjab, Sindh, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan have High courts, respectively called Lahore High Court, Sindh High Court, Peshawar High Court, and Balochistan High Court. After the approval of 18th Constitutional Amendment in April 2010, a new High court is established at Federal Capital Islamabad with the name of Islamabad High Court.In 18th Amendment, judges appointments are proposed by a Parliamentary Commission. Judges of the provincial high courts were, previously appointed ( The seventeenth amendment give these powers to the president, previously Prime minister exercised them) by the president after consultation with the chief justice of the Supreme Court, as well as the governor of the province and the chief justice of the high court to which the appointment is being made. High courts have original and appellate jurisdiction.
In addition, there are special courts and tribunals to deal with specific kinds of cases, such as drug courts, commercial courts, labour courts, traffic courts, an insurance appellate tribunal, an income tax appellate tribunal, and special courts for bank offences. There are also special courts to try terrorists. Appeals from special courts go to high courts except for labour and traffic courts, which have their own forums for appeal. Appeals from the tribunals go to the Supreme Court.
Ombudsman/Mohtasib [ edit ] 
A further feature of the judicial system is the office of Mohtasib (Ombudsman), which is provided for in the constitution. The office of Mohtasib was established in many early Muslim states to ensure that no wrongs were done to citizens. Appointed by the president, the Mohtasib holds office for four years; the term cannot be extended or renewed. The Mohtasib's purpose is to institutionalize a system for enforcing administrative accountability, through investigating and rectifying any injustice done to a person through maladministration by a federal agency or a federal government official. The Mohtasib is empowered to award compensation to those who have suffered loss or damage as a result of maladministration. Excluded from jurisdiction, however, are personal grievances or service matters of a public servant as well as matters relating to foreign affairs, national defence, and the armed services. This institution is designed to bridge the gap between administrator and citizen, to improve administrative processes and procedures, and to help curb misuse of discretionary powers.
Political background [ edit ] 
Main article: Political history of Pakistan Nawaz Sharif meeting with the conservative intellectuals and thinkers during the conservative conference in 1994. 
Pakistan has been ruled by both democratic and military governments. [ 2 ] The first decade was marred with political unrest and instability, with frequent collapses of civilian democratic governments that eventually led to the 1958 military coup. [ 3 ] Since 1947 till present now, Pakistan has been governed by various of both right-wing conservative governments and left-wing socialistic oriented governments, while neither far-right and far-left had failed to achieve enough majority to claim the exclusive mandate. [ 4 ] 
From 1947 to 1958 as many as seven Prime Ministers of Pakistan either resigned or were ousted. This political instability paved the way for Pakistanas first military take over. On October 7, 1958 Pakistanas civilian and first President Iskander Mirza in collaboration with General Mohammad Ayub Khan abrogated Pakistanas constitution and declared Martial Law.
General Ayub Khan was the president from 1958 to 1969, and General Yahya Khan from 1969 to 1971, Chief Justice Habib Khan Marvath elected first Chairman Senate of Pakistan. Civilian, yet socialist-oriented autocratic, rule continued from 1972 to 1977 under Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, but he was deposed by General Zia-Ul-Haq. General Zia was killed in a plane crash in 1988, after which Benazir Bhutto, daughter of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, was elected as the Prime Minister of Pakistan. She was the youngest woman ever to be elected the Head of Government and the first woman to be elected as the Head of Government of a Muslim country. Her government was followed by that of Nawaz Sharif, and the two leaders alternated until the military coup by General Pervez Musharraf in 1999. From the resignation of President Rafiq Tarar in 2001, to his own resignation in 2008, Musharraf was the President of Pakistan. In 2008, Asif Ali Zardari was elected president.
Nation-wide parliamentary elections were held in October 2002, with the PML-Q winning a plurality of seats in the National Assembly of Pakistan, and Zafarullah Khan Jamali of that party emerging as Prime Minister. Jamali resigned on June 26, 2004. PML-Q leader Chaudhry Shujaat Hussain became interim PM, and was succeeded by Finance Minister and former Citibank Vice President Shaukat Aziz, who was elected Prime Minister on August 27, 2004 by a National Assembly vote of 191 to 151. In the October 2002 general elections, the Pakistan Peoples Party Parliamentarians (PPPP), a sub-party of the PPP, won a plurality of National Assembly seats with the second-largest group being the General Musharraf sponsored Pakistan Muslim League (Q) (PML-Q). The military regime as opposed to democratic precedent refused to extend an invite to the PPPP to prove majority and install its Prime Minister. The regime further suspended articles of Constitution to allow floor-crossing across party lines engaging in a buy-out of members of opposition party. Thus after the defection of ten PPPP members from Punjab rechristening themselves as the Pakistan Peoples Party Patriots; Zafarullah Khan Jamali of PML-Q emerged as Prime Minister but resigned on 26 June 2004 and was replaced by PML-Q leader Chaudhry Shujaat Hussain as interim Prime Minister. On 28 August 2004 the National Assembly voted 191 to 151 to elect the Finance Minister and former Citibank Vice President Shaukat Aziz as Prime Minister. The Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal, a coalition of Islamic religious parties, won elections in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, and increased their representation in the National Assemblya until their defeat in the 2008 elections.
The Pakistan's federal cabinet on April 12, 2006 decided that general elections would be held after the completion of the assemblies constitutional term by the end of 2007 or beginning of 2008. [ 5 ] 
Form of Government [ edit ] 
Officially a federal republic, Pakistan has had a long history of alternating periods of electoral democracy and authoritarian military government. Military presidents include General Ayub Khan in the 1960s, General Zia ul Haq in the 1980s, and General Pervez Musharraf from 1999. However, a majority of Pakistan's Heads of State and Heads of Government have been elected civilian leaders. General elections were held in October 2002. After monitoring the elections, the Commonwealth Observer Group stated in conclusion:
We believe that on election day this was a credible election: the will of the people was expressed and the results reflected their wishes. However, in the context of various measures taken by the government we are not persuaded of the overall fairness of the process as a whole. [ 6 ] 
On May 22, 2004, the Commonwealth Ministerial Action Group re-admitted Pakistan into the Commonwealth, formally acknowledging its progress in returning to democracy.
Kashmir in Pakistani politics [ edit ] 
Azad Kashmir has its own constitution, the Azad Jammu and Kashmir Interim Constitution Act of 1974, and a locally chosen parliamentary form of government, as described above . The constitution allows for many of the structures that comprise a self-governing state, including a legislative assembly elected through periodic elections, a prime minister who commands the majority in the assembly, an indirectly elected president, an independent judiciary, and local government institutions.
But these provisions are hollow. Under Section 56 of the Jammu and Kashmir Interim Constitution Act (which was drafted by the Federal Ministries of Law and Kashmir Affairs in Islamabad), the Pakistani government can dismiss any elected government in Azad Kashmir irrespective of the support it may enjoy in the AJK Legislative Assembly. The Interim Constitution Act provides for two executive forumsathe Azad Kashmir Government in Muzaffarabad and the Azad Kashmir Council in Islamabad.
The latter body, presided over by the Prime Minister of Pakistan, exercises paramount authority over the AJK Legislative Assembly, which cannot challenge decisions of the council. The council is under the numerical control of the federal government in Islamabad, as in addition to the Pakistani prime minister it comprises six other federal ministers, the minister of Kashmir affairs as the ex-officio member, the prime minister of Azad Kashmir, and six Azad Kashmir members elected by the Legislative Assembly.38 The interim constitution act lists fifty-two subjectsavirtually everything of any importanceathat are under the jurisdiction of the Azad Kashmir Council, which has been described as the asupra powera by the Azad Kashmir High Court. Its decisions are final and not subject to judicial review.
Thus, Azad Kashmir remains for all intents and purposes under Pakistanas strict control, exercising no real sovereignty of its own. From the outset, the institutional set up in the territory was designed to ensure Pakistanas control of the areaas affairs. According to the United Nations Commission for India and Pakistan (UNCIP) 39 resolutions, Azad Kashmir is neither a sovereign state nor a province of Pakistan, but rather a alocal authoritya with responsibility over the area assigned to it under the current 2003 ceasefire line agreement. 40 The alocal authoritya or Provisional government of Azad Kashmir as established in October 1947 handed over to Pakistan under the Karachi Agreement of April 28, 1949, matters related to defense, foreign affairs, negotiations with the UNCIP and coordination of all affairs relating to Gilgit and Baltistan (strategically important territories that now comprise Pakistanas aNorthern Areasa.
A former president of Azad Kashmir (who preferred not to be named in this report) described the situation as agovernment of Azad Kashmir, by the Pakistanis, for Pakistan.a He also pointed to the striking continuity of the aold princely systema under British rule because of Islamabadas aviceroya role generally and the maintenance of the traditional biradari system locally.
Provincial Governments [ edit ] 
The subdivisions of Pakistan 
Pakistan is subdivided into 4 provinces, 2 territories, and 1 capital territory. Each province has a Provincial Assembly, a directly elected legislature. Members are elected for five-year terms. Each Assembly elects a Chief Minister, who then selects the ministers of his or her cabinet.
Balochistan, Federally Administered Tribal Areas*, Islamabad Capital Territory**, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Punjab, Sindh, GilgitaBaltistan has semi-provincial status with a directly elected Legislature, an elected Chief minister and federally appointed Governor for the region., . Note; the Federally administered portion also includes the disputed/held Kashmir region includes Azad Kashmir and the Northern Areas., . See also: Government of Pakistan 
Local Governments [ edit ] 
Pakistan's provinces are divided into districts called zillas in local languages (counterpart to a county in US or UK terminology). A zilla is further subdivided into tehsils (roughly equivalent to a borough in an integrated multi-tier (federated) systemic context, such as the one to be found in Montreal (Canada, 2002) and Birmingham (UK, 2001 announcement) or known as arrondissements in French context. Tehsils may contain town or municipalities. Pakistan's system is the one that applies an integrated federated systemic framework most comprehensively, so far.
This methodology is not new to the region, as it is similar to what is referred to as the old Panchayat Raj system in India that was introduced by Britain during the colonial era. In the 1890s Britain had become the first nation to adapt the two-tier administrative framework of revolutionary Paris (1790) onto pre-existing parish councils in the urban context (London) and into three tiers in the rural context (county, district, parish councils). In India it was implemented in some regions and not others; and then allowed to lie fallow. It got new life after the very successful West Bengal revival in the 1970s, which eventually inspired the 1990s Constitutional Amendment making it national policy.
The main difference is that Pakistan is the only country with an urban framework, as well, in the region today; and Pakistan's system has common-representational framework between tiers (as Montreal and Birmingham also have in two-tier contextaeven though Birmingham is working on implementing a three-tier system); and, it has a bottom-up representational framework like the Canadian example. Pakistan had the only three-tier integrated bottom-up common-representational local government system, until it was adapted for another country in 2003. UK, the country which first introduced this methodology in the region, also has the urban examples of London and Birmingham (being implemented in the post-2001 era by building on steps first introduced in the 1980s); as does France (where largest cities and smaller units have created such frameworks either by devolution (Marseilles and Lyon, in addition to Paris) or by integration of neighbouring units (such as the Nantes region pursuant to the Marcellin Act of the 1970s); and Canada.
This methodology is being increasingly adapted, as it delivers greater systemic productivity, being a more inclusive framework that provides greater regional integration. In the US, the seven county Twin Cities (MN) regional system and Portland (OR) Metro are both the most integrated US examples; but, also those often cited in the US for what they have achieved. These US examplesa with their multi-county frameworka are similar to what is in place in France after regional unit introduction (making France have a three-tier systemic framework also in the Commune (municipal/lowest tier local unit), Department (county), Regional unit context). Multi-county frameworks are suitable for a very suburbanized system like in the US. After France and Britain, the Indian colony of Britain was the third region to see this methodology implemented.
There are over five thousand local governments in Pakistan. Since 2001, the vast majority of these have been led by democratically elected local councils, each headed by a Nazim (mayor or supervisor.) Council elections are held every four years.
Top 5 Parties Votes and Seats in General Elections [ edit ] 
General Elections, 2008 [ edit ] 
No. Party Votes Obtained NA Seats 1., Pakistan Peoples Party, 10666548, 125, 2., Pakistan Muslim League (Q), 8007217, 50, 3., Pakistan Muslim League (N), 6805324, 92, 4., Muttahida Qaumi Movement, 2573795, 25, 5., Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal, 766240, 8, --, Independents, 3865954, 20, [ 7 ] 
General Elections, 2013 [ edit ] 
No. Party Votes Obtained 1., Pakistan Muslim League (N), 14874104, 2., Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf, 7679954, 3., Pakistan Peoples Party, 6911218, 4., Independents, 5880658, 5., Muttahida Qaumi Movement, 2456153, [ 8 ] 
Foreign relations [ edit ] 
Main article: Foreign relations of Pakistan The Map of Pakistan 
Pakistan is the second largest Muslim country in terms of population, and its status as a declared nuclear power, being the only Muslim nation to have that status, plays a part in its international role. It is also an active member of the United Nations. Historically, its foreign policy has encompassed difficult relations with India, a desire for a stable Afghanistan, long-standing close relations with the People's Republic of China, extensive security and economic interests in the Persian Gulf and wide-ranging bilateral relations with the United States and other Western countries. Pakistan is also an important member of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC). Pakistan has used the OIC as a forum for Enlightened Moderation, [ 9 ] its plan to promote a renaissance and enlightenment in the Islamic world.
Wary of Soviet expansion, Pakistan had strong relations with both the United States of America and the People's Republic of China during much of the Cold War. It was a member of the CENTO and SEATO military alliances. Its alliance with the United States was especially close after the Soviets invaded the neighbouring country of Afghanistan.
In 1964, Pakistan signed the Regional Cooperation for Development (RCD) Pact with Turkey and Iran, when all three countries were closely allied with the U.S., and as neighbours of the Soviet Union, wary of perceived Soviet expansionism. To this day, Pakistan has a close relationship with Turkey. RCD became defunct after the Iranian Revolution, and a Pakistani-Turkish initiative led to the founding of the Economic Cooperation Organisation (ECO) in 1985. Pakistan's relations with India have improved recently and this has opened up Pakistan's foreign policy to issues beyond security. This development might completely change the complexion of Pakistan's foreign relations.
Pakistan joined the Non-Aligned Movement in 1979. [ 10 ] 
See also [ edit ] 
, Government of Pakistan portal, Pakistan portal, Political families of Pakistan, Court system of Pakistan, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ "Pakistani criminal court system". Association of Commonwealth Criminal Lawyers . Retrieved 2010-12-24 . , ^ Cheema, F., The Promise of Contemporary Pakistan, Swords and Ploughshares, The bulletin of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament, and International Security, University of Illinois at UrbanaaChampaign, Vol. XV, No. 3, 2004 , ^ Tudor, Maya. "The Promise of Power: The Origins of Democracy in India and Autocracy in Pakistan." Cambridge University Press, 2013. , ^ Mughal, Muhammad Aurang Zeb. 2011. Margins and Marginality: Pakistani State and Societies. Anthropology Today 27(2): 28-29. , ^ Plan to hold census in 2008: Cabinet okays F-16 purchase -DAWN - Top Stories; April 13, 2006 , ^ http://www.thecommonwealth.org/shared_asp_files/uploadedfiles/{B8E19A5C-0810-4AAF-AD3A-F0AFCEE0E814}_Pakistan 2002.pdf , ^ [1], Vote Bank 2008. , ^ [2], vote bank 2013. , ^ President Musharraf on Enlightened Moderation , ^ Pakistan: A Country Study , "The United States and the West" , External links [ edit ] 
Patronage Politics in Pakistan, Latest Politics Updates in Pakistan, Pakistan Government at DMOZ, Government of Pakistan, Decentralization in Pakistani Perspective, Essay on democracy in Pakistan by Professor Adil Najam of Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, . 
v , t , e , . Pakistan topics , Basic topics, Alphabetical index of topics, . , History , Ancient Stone age, Soanian, Mehrgarh, Indus Valley, Indo-Iranics, Indo-Aryan, Achaemenid, Greco-Bactrian, Maurya, Gandhara, Indo-Greek, Indo-Scythian, Indo-Parthian, Kushan, Indo-Sassanid, . , Medieval Indo-Hephthalite, Kamboja, Rai Dynasty, Shahi, Pala, Solanki, Muhammad bin Qasim, Ghaznavid, Ghurid, Mamluk, Khilji, Tughlaq, Sayyid, Lodi, Timurid, . , Modern 
Pre-colonial Mughal, Afsharid, East India Company, Durrani, Sikh Confederacy, Sikh Empire, First Anglo-Afghan War, First Anglo-Sikh War, Second Anglo-Sikh War, Rebellion, . , Colonial British Raj, Second Anglo-Afghan War, Durand Line, Third Anglo-Afghan War, Aligarh Movement, HindiaUrdu controversy, Pakistan Movement Muslim League, Two nation theory, Jinnah's 14 Points, Lahore Resolution, Direct Action Day, . , Partition, Independence, . , Dominion Dominion of Pakistan, Princely states, 1947 War, LiaquataNehru Pact, Baghdad Pact, . , Republic Indus Treaty, 1965 War, 1971 War, Project-706, Islamisation, Baloch insurgency, Kargil War, Liberalization, War in north-west, . , Geography , Features Beaches, Deserts, Glaciers, Islands, Lakes, Mountains, Passes, Rivers, Valleys, Waterfalls, Wetlands, . , Areas Arabian Sea, Gwadar Bay, Indus Plain, Pothohar Plateau, Salt Range, Sistan Basin, . , Geology Coal fields, Gas fields, Minerals, Oil fields, Tectonics, Volcanoes, Floods, . , Environment Botanical gardens, Ecoregions, Environmental issues, Forests, Protected areas national parks, game reserves, sanctuaries, . , Wildlife flora, fauna, . , Zoos, . , Other topics Archaeological sites, Climate weather records, . , Borders, Natural disasters earthquakes, floods, . , Natural history, Subdivisions provinces, districts, cities, . , World Heritage Sites, . , Governance , State President, Security Council, DCC, ECC, AEDB, . , Government National government Cabinet, Ministries, Prime Minister, . , Provincial governments Governors, Chief Ministers, . , Local government Union councils, . , . , Legislative Parliament ( Majlis-e-Shoora ) Senate (upper house) Chairman, . , National Assembly (lower house) Speaker, . , . , Provincial assemblies, Jirga (tribal assembly) , . , Judicial Supreme Council, Supreme Court Chief Justice, . , Shariat Court, High Courts, District Courts, . , Politics Elections, Foreign relations, Feudalism, Intelligence community, Political parties, Martial law, . , Law Constitution LFO, PPC, WPB, PCO, . , Human rights LGBT, . , LGBT history, Law enforcement Police, Criminal Investigation (CID), Anti-Narcotics (ANF), Capital punishment, . , Terrorism State terrorism, . , . , Military History, Army, Air force, Navy, Marines, Coast Guard, Paramilitary, Nuclear, . , Economy , Infrastructure Electricity coal, nuclear, solar, wind, . , Employment, Foreign aid, Fuel extraction, Housing, Planning Commission, Post, Poverty, Satellite, Tallest buildings, Telecommunications, Transportation bridges, . , Water management, Water supply and sanitation, . , Industry Agriculture, Arms, Automobile, Fishery, Forestry, Horticulture, Husbandry, Labour child, . , Media, Mining, Pharmaceuticals, Silk, Textiles, Tourism, . , Commerce Banking banks, . , Companies, Investment board, Rupee (currency) , Securities and Exchange Commission, Stock markets, Trade unions, Trading Corporation, . , Policy programmes Corporatisation, Directive investment, Industrialisation, Military economisation, Nationalisation, Privatisation, Public-private partnering, Redundant Islamic economisation, . , Society and culture , Society Crime, Culture, Education institutions, . , Feudalism, Gender discrimination, Healthcare hospitals, . , Human rights LGBT, . , Marriage, Media, Naming, List of Pakistanis, Prostitution, Religion, Social clubs, Time, Urbanisation, Women, . , Demographics Diaspora, Ethnicity, Immigration, Languages Urdu, . , . , Arts Architecture, Cinema films, . , Dance, Folklore, Literature Mushaira , . , Music, Philosophy, Textiles, Theatre, . , Lifestyle Clothing Shalwar kameez , . , Cosmetics Mehndi , . , Cuisine, Etiquette, Gun culture, Nationalism flags, public holidays, songs, symbols, . , . , Sports Athletics, Baseball, Boxing, Cricket, Cycling, Field hockey, Football, Gilli-danda, Golf, Kabaddi, Motorsport, Marathon (Lahore), Olympics, Paralympics, Polo, Rugby, Squash, Swimming, Tennis, . , Places Botanical gardens, Cemeteries, Churches, Forts, Gurdwaras, Hindu temples, Libraries, Mausolea and shrines, Mosques, Museums, Parks, Stadiums, World Heritage Sites, Zoos, . , Category, Portal, Commons, . , v , t , e , . Politics of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan , Philippines, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . Elections and referendums in Pakistan , General elections 1920A, 1923A, 1926A, 1930A, 1934A, 1945A, 1970, 1977, 1985, 1988, 1990, 1993, 1997, 2002, 2008, 2013, . , Senate elections 2006, 2009, 2012, 2015 , . , Regional elections 1937, 1946, 1951, 1953, 1954, . , Referendums 1960, 1984, 2002, . , A As part of British India , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_Pakistan and oldid=630708027" Categories: History of Pakistan, Politics of Pakistan, . Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from June 2013, All articles needing additional references, Articles containing Urdu-language text, Articles with DMOZ links, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
aaaaa, DNDDDNNDD, IIIIIIII, Euskara, FranAais, PortuguAs, DNNNDDD, Simple English, OOOU, . Edit links This page was last modified on 22 October 2014 at 21:43.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
