
Committee - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Committee 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia AA(Redirected from Parliamentary committee) Jump to: navigation, search For other uses, see Committee (disambiguation). 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2009) , Committee room, designed 1901, in Halifax Town Hall 
A committee (or "commission") is a type of small deliberative assembly that is usually intended to remain subordinate to another, larger deliberative assemblyawhich when organized so that action on committee requires a vote by all its entitled members, is called the "Committee of the Whole". Committees often serve several different functions:
Governance : in organizations considered too large for all the members to participate in decisions affecting the organization as a whole, a committee (such as a Board of Directors or "Executive Committee") is given the power to make decisions, spend money, or take actions. Some or all such powers may be limited or effectively unlimited. For example of the later case, the Board of Directors can frequently enter into binding contracts and make decisions which once taken or made, cannot be taken back or undone under the law., . 
Coordination : individuals from different parts of an organization (for example, all senior vice presidents) might meet regularly to discuss developments in their areas, review projects that cut across organizational boundaries, talk about future options, etc. Where there is a large committee, it is common to have smaller committees with more specialized functions - for example, Boards of Directors of large corporations typically have an (ongoing) audit committee, finance committee, compensation committee, etc. Large academic conferences are usually organized by a co-ordinating committee drawn from the relevant professional body., . 
Research and recommendations : committees are often formed to do research and make recommendations on a potential or planned project or change. For example, an organization considering a major capital investment might create a temporary working committee of several people to review options and make recommendations to upper management or the Board of Directors. Such committees are typically dissolved after issuing recommendations (often in the form of a final report)., . Tabling : as a means of public relations by sending sensitive, inconvenient, or irrelevant matters to committees, organizations may bypass, stall, or disacknowledge matters without declaring a formal policy of inaction or indifference., . 
Contents
1 Procedures , 2 Subcommittees 2.1 Executive committees , 2.2 Standing committees , 2.3 Working committees , . , 3 Need 3.1 Cross-field reasons , . , 4 Conference committee , 5 Standing committees 5.1 Executive standing committee , 5.2 Legislatures 5.2.1 Parliamentary committees , . , . , 6 Steering committees , 7 See also , 8 References , . 
Procedures [ edit ] 
It is common for a chairperson to organize a committee meeting through an agenda, which is usually distributed in advance., The chairperson is responsible for running meetings: keeping the discussion on the appropriate subject, recognizing members (calling on them to speak) [often omitted in smaller committees], and calling for votes after a debate has taken place [formal voting is normally only done in committees involved in governance]. Governance committees often have formal processes (for example, they might follow Roberts Rules of Order); other types of committees typically operate informally, with the chairperson being responsible for deciding how formal the committee processes will be., Minutes, a record of the discussion and decisions of the meeting, are often taken by a person designated as the secretary of the committee; they may be legally obligatory (again, typically for governance committees, especially boards of directors)., For committees that meet regularly, the minutes of the most recent meeting are often circulated to committee members before the next meeting, and are available to the membership of the whole., Committees may meet on a regular basis, often weekly or yearly, or meetings may be called irregularly as the need arises. During an emergency, a committee may meet more than once per day, or sit in permanent session, as, for example, ExComm (the President's Executive Committee) did during the Cuban Missile Crisis., . 
Subcommittees [ edit ] 
A committee that is a subset of a larger committee is called a subcommittee .
Where the larger group has a name other than "committee" - for example, "Board" or "Commission", the smaller group(s) would usually be called committee(s), not subcommittee(s), and might go by an entirely different name, or substitute "Commission" for "Committee". For example in the sciences, the "International Commission on Stratigraphy" (ICS) a standing working committee is doing organizational work establishing uniform naming and benchmarks in the geologic record and timeline since 1974, all under the auspices of the International Union of Geological Sciences (IUGS). It is technically the "International Stratigraphy Committee" (ISC), which has limited executive committee powers to impanel other subcommittees (also called commissions) to resolve certain matters involving the Geologic time scaleaits deliberations and those of its subcommittees must be adopted by the IUGS which meets in a committee-of-the-whole or Congress, every four years or so to deliberate on the subcommittee recommendations and officially adopt or not-adopt such.
From the foregoing, it can easily be seen subcommittees can generally be classified further by the adjectives: "Executive", "Standing", and "Working":
Executive committees [ edit ] 
An executive committee, as a type of subcommittee, has well-defined executive powers (usually spelled out in a charter or in by-laws) and meets frequently to manage the affairs and further the purposes of an organization or entity. Organization with a large Board of Directors (such as international labor unions, large corporations (with thousands of stock holders) or national and international organizations) commonly empanel executive committees. A Board of directors itself functions as a kind of executive committee - established by the charter and by-laws of the entity and elected by the overall franchised membership. Organizations with large Boards of Directors - say 20 people or more - commonly have an Executive Committee of the Board: an executive subcommittee of Board members collectively authorized to make some decisions on behalf of the entire Board.
Standing committees [ edit ] 
A committee established by an official and providing for its scope and powers. Most governmental legislative subcommittees are standing committees, which by another name is a permanent committee . Standing committees meet on a regular or irregular basis dependent upon their enabling act, and retain any power or oversight claims originally given them until subsequent official actions of the committee of the whole (changes to law or by-laws) disbands the committee.
Working committees [ edit ] 
An ad hoc committee established to accomplish a particular task or to oversee an ongoing area in need of control or oversight. Many are research or co-ordination committees in type or purpose, and can be temporary. Some are a sub-group of a larger society with a particular area of interest which decides to meet and discuss matters pertaining to their interests. For example a group of astronomers might get together ad hoc to discuss how to get the larger society to address near earth objects; A subgroup of engineers and scientists of a large project's development team could meet ad hoc to solve some particular issue with offsetting considerations and trade-offs. The term when used officially, generally means a group with specific duties and related authority, so when encountered in official contexts subsumes all other official types of committees. The International Commission on Stratigraphy and its subcommittees (commissions in name) are working committees that meet both far more regularly and more frequently both in deliberation and co-ordination furthering the needs of the IUGS (which regularly schedules meetings only every fourth year) and the larger scientific community.
Need [ edit ] 
Committees are a necessary aspect of organizations of any significant size (say, more than 15 or 20 people). They keep the number of participants manageable.
Cross-field reasons [ edit ] 
Committees are a way to formally draw together people of relevant expertise from different parts of an organization who otherwise would not have a good way to share information and coordinate actions. They may have the advantage of widening viewpoints and sharing out responsibilities. They can also be empaneled with experts to recommend actions by the committee of the whole in matters that require specialized knowledge or technical judgment. A "Defense" or "Banking" subcommittee in legislative bodies or the many International science commissions such as the ICS mentioned above, or a local "board of health" are or may be such.
Conference committee [ edit ] 
A conference committee is a joint committee of a bicameral legislature, which is appointed by, and consists of, members of both chambers to resolve disagreements on a particular bill.
While such committees are common in the United States Congress and legislatures in other countries with Presidential Systems, they are no longer in use in the Parliament of the United Kingdom or most other bicameral Westminster system parliaments. [ citation needed ] A conference committee is usually composed of the senior members of the standing committees of each House that originally considered the legislation. In the United States Congress, a Conference Committee is a temporary panel of House and Senate negotiators: when the two houses pass similar bills with variants, a conference committee is appointed to resolve the differences between the bills and produce a compromise acceptable to both houses. Unless one house decides to accept the other's original bill, a re-vote is necessary in both houses.
Standing committees [ edit ] 
A standing committee is a subunit of a political or deliberative body established in a permanent fashion to aid the parent assembly in accomplishing its duties. A standing committee is usually granted jurisdiction over a particular area of legislation by the parent body.
Under the laws of the United States of America, a standing committee is a Congressional committee permanently authorized by United States House of Representatives and United States Senate rules. The Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 greatly reduced the number of committees, and set up the legislative committee structure still in use today, as modified by authorized changes via the orderly mechanism of rules changes .
Executive standing committee [ edit ] 
The section in the government were the make executive decisions
Legislatures [ edit ] 
The phrase is used in the legislatures of the following countries:
Australia Australian House of Representatives committees, Australian Senate committees, . , Canada List of committees of the Canadian House of Commons, Standing committee (Canada), . , China Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, . , Iceland List of standing committees of the Icelandic parliament, . , India Standing committee (India), . , United Kingdom Public bill committee, . , United States Standing committee (United States Congress), . , . 
Parliamentary committees [ edit ] 
The following take part in the parliamentary procedure:
Fiscal committee, if the bill contains an appropriation or has financial implications for the state or federation., Policy committee. Appropriate committee to the subject matter., Rules committee. The rules committee of the House assigns each bill to a policy committee., . 
Steering committees [ edit ] 
A steering committee is a committee that provides guidance, direction and control to a project within an organization. [ 1 ] The term is derived from the steering mechanism that changes the steering angle of a vehicle's wheels.
Project Steering Committees are frequently used for guiding and monitoring the information technology projects in large organizations, as part of project governance. The functions of the committee might include building a business case for the project, planning, providing assistance and guidance, monitoring the progress, controlling the project scope and resolving conflicts.
See also [ edit ] 
Committee of the Whole, List of Committees of the United Kingdom Parliament, List of IEC Technical Committees, List of the Czech Republic Senate committees, Quorum, Standing Committees of the European Parliament, United States Congressional committee, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ Mcleod (2008). Management Information Systems (10 ed.). Pearson Education. p.201. ISBN978-81-317-1949-7. , v , t , e , . Parliamentary procedure , Major concepts Deliberative assembly, Motions, Main motion, Quorum, Session, Chair, Committee , Committee of the whole, Dilatory motions and tactics, Minutes, Second, History of parliamentary procedure, Principles of parliamentary procedure, Voting methods in deliberative assemblies, Floor, . , Subsidiary motions Postpone indefinitely, Amend, Commit, Postpone to a certain time, Limit or extend limits of debate, Previous question, Cloture, Lay upon the table, Place upon the table, . , Privileged motions Call for the orders of the day, Raise a question of privilege, Recess, Adjourn, Fix the time to which to adjourn, . , Incidental motions Point of order, Appeal, Suspend the rules, Objection to the consideration of a question, Division of a question, Consideration by paragraph or seriatim, Division of the assembly, Motions relating to methods of voting and the polls, Motions relating to nominations, . , Incidental motions
(Requests and inquiries) Parliamentary inquiry, Point of information, Request for permission to withdraw or modify a motion, Request to read papers, Request to be excused from a duty, Request for any other privilege, . , Motions that bring a question
again before the assembly Take from the table, Rescind, repeal, annul or amend something previously adopted, Discharge a committee, Reconsider, . , Legislative procedure Call of the house, Hastert Rule, Hoist, Motion to pass on, . , Disciplinary procedures Censure, Declare the chair vacant, Impeach, Naming, . , Parliamentary authorities Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised (RONR), The Standard Code of Parliamentary Procedure (TSC or Sturgis), Demeter's Manual of Parliamentary Law and Procedure , Riddick's Rules of Procedure , Mason's Manual of Legislative Procedure , Erskine May: Parliamentary Practice , Bourinot's Rules of Order , Beauchesne's Parliamentary Rules and Forms , Morin code, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Committee and oldid=629181526#Parliamentary_committees" Categories: Political organizations, Human communication, Clubs and societies, Community organizing, Committees, Legislatures, Meetings, Parliamentary procedure, Political communication, . Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from December 2009, All articles needing additional references, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from February 2012, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, DDDDNNNDDN, CatalA, AeAtina, Dansk, Deutsch, EspaAol, Esperanto, Euskara, UOOOU, iei, Italiano, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, PortuguAs, DNNNDDD, Soomaaliga, Suomi, Svenska, aaa, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 11 October 2014 at 14:58.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
