
Patriots of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Patriots of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article may be expanded with text translated from the corresponding article in the Russian Wikipedia . (September 2012) Click [show] on the right to read important instructions before translating. View a machine-translated version of the Russian article. , Google's machine translation is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. , Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. , After translating, {{TranslatedruDDNNDDNN DDNNDD}} must be added to the talk page to ensure copyright compliance. , For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation. , . , Patriots of Russia , Leader Gennady Semigin, Founded April 2005, Split from Communist Party of the Russian Federation, Headquarters Moscow, Russia, Ideology Democratic socialism, left-wing nationalism, collectivism, Political position Left-wing, International affiliation None , European affiliation None , Colours Red, Yellow, Seats in the State Duma 0/450 , Seats in the Regional Parliaments 33/3, 980 , Website http://www.patriot-rus.ru, Politics of Russia
Political parties
Elections, The Flag of The Party Patriots Of Russia. 
Patriots of Russia (Russian: DDNNDDNN DDNNDD , Patrioty Rossii ) is a left-wing nationalist and socialist political party in Russia. It was established in April 2005 by Gennady Semigin, who was expelled from the Communist Party of the Russian Federation after he failed in a power struggle with Gennady Zuganov.
Contents
1 History , 2 Ideology , 3 Electoral results 3.1 The Federal Parliament of the Russian , 3.2 Regions , . , 4 External links , 5 References , . 
History [ edit ] 
In 2006 Gennadiy Semigin and his new party aPatriots of Russiaa joined the Rodina faction in the Duma. Following Rodina's merger with the Russian Party of Life and the Russian Pensioners' Party under the leadership of Sergey Mironov in October 2006 to form the Just Russia party, aPatriots of Russiaa declared its intention to run as a separate party in the 2007 elections.
In 2008, the Party of Russia's Rebirth and Party of Peace and Unity, Teamed up with the party of Patriots of Russia [ 1 ] [ 2 ] 
Ideology [ edit ] 
The official ideology's of the party are democratic socialism and collectivism. [ 3 ] The party has many of the same policy positions as the Communist Party of the Russian Federation.
On foreign policy issues, it opposes the influence of NATO and the United States.
Electoral results [ edit ] 
The Federal Parliament of the Russian [ edit ] 
Year th> Place 2007, 0.89, 0, 2011, 0.97, 0, Regions [ edit ] 
Until 2011, the party had fractions in regional parliaments: the Kaliningrad region, Yaroslavl region, Republic of Dagestan, in the city of Kemerovo. 19 deputies in the regions of the referred from other parties.
13 September 2012, the party withdrew its candidate for the post of Governor of Ryazan region and supported the candidate from the ruling party United Russia [ 4 ] 
14 October 2012, in the regional elections in the Republic of North Ossetia received (61039) 26, 57nd is represented in the regional Parliament 14 deputies. [ 5 ] 
External links [ edit ] 
The official site of party (Russian) , . 
References [ edit ] 
^ VIDEO: Congress of the party Patriots of Russia, the unification of the Party of Russia's Rebirth // 2007 y. , ^ VIDEO: The Congress Party of Patriots , the unification of the Party of Peace and Unity // 23 November 2008 y. , ^ The Dfficial ideology of the party PATRIOTS of RUSSIA , ^ VIDEO: Patriots of Russia withdrew from the elections of the Governor of his candidate and supported the party of power " United Russia , ^ The results of the elections of the Republic of North Ossetia // 14 October 2012 year, the Election Commission of the Republic of North Ossetia , v , t , e , . Registered political parties in Russia , Represented in State Duma United Russia (238), Communist Party of the Russian Federation (92), A Just Russia (64), LDPR (56), . , Only in regional parliaments Patriots of Russia , Communist Party of Social Justice, Communists of Russia, Rodina, Green Alliance a The People's Party, Russian Party of Pensioners for Justice, Yabloko, Right Cause, Civic Platform, Republican Party of Russia a People's Freedom Party, . , Other registered
(in the Justice Ministry's order) Democratic Party of Russia, People's Party for the Women of Russia, Union Towns People, People's Party of Russia, Social Democratic Party of Russia, Cities of Russia, Young Russia, New Russia, Party of Free Citizens, Russian Ecological Party "The Greens", Agrarian Party of Russia, Russian All-People's Union, Party for Justice, Civilian Power, Clever Russia, Home Country, Monarchist Party, Party of Peace and Unity, Democratic Choice, Will, Against All, Russian United Labour Front, Party Action, Civil Position, Party of Russia's Rebirth, . , Official list of parties registered by the Ministry of Justice, Portal:Politics, List of political parties, Politics of Russia, Russian political movements and non-registered parties, . , v , t , e , . Left-wing political parties in Russia , Registered parties Communist Party of the Russian Federation, A Just Russia, Patriots of Russia , Communists of Russia, Communist Party of Social Justice, Agrarian Party of Russia, Social Democratic Party of Russia, Russian United Labour Front, Will, Russian Party of Pensioners for Justice, Party of Russia's Rebirth, . , Unregistered parties Left Front, All-Union Communist Party, All-Union Communist Party Bolsheviks, Russian Communist Workers' Party of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, Vanguard of Red Youth, Russian Maoist Party, Russian Socialist Movement, Russian Section of the Committee for a Workers' International, Union of Social Democrats, Alliance of the Revolutionary Socialists, Communist Party of the Soviet Union, . , Defunct parties Revolutionary Workers' Party (Russia), . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Patriots_of_Russia and oldid=621926239" Categories: Nationalist parties in Russia, Registered political parties in Russia, Political parties established in 2005, Socialist parties in Russia, 2005 establishments in Russia, Russian nationalist organizations, . Hidden categories: Use dmy dates from November 2012, Articles to be expanded from September 2012, All articles to be expanded, Articles needing translation from Russian Wikipedia, Articles containing Russian-language text, Articles with Russian-language external links, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, AeAtina, Deutsch, EspaAol, FranAais, aeaee, Polski, DNNNDDD, Shqip, Suomi, Svenska, DDNDNDNNDD, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 19 August 2014 at 15:22.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
