
Petroleum industry in Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Petroleum industry in Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search Graph of Top Oil Producing Countries 1960-2006, including Russia [ 1 ] Russia natural gas production (red) and exports (black). Russian crude oil production (red) and crude oil exports {black). 
The petroleum industry in Russia is one of the largest in the world. Russia has the largest reserves, and is the largest exporter, of natural gas. It has the second largest coal reserves, the eighth largest oil reserves, and is the largest producer of oil. [ 2 ] It is the third largest energy user. [ 3 ] 
Russia produced an average of 10.2 million barrels (1, 620, 000m 3 ) of oil per day in 2010. [ 2 ] It produces 12f the world's oil and has a same share in global oil exports. [ 4 ] In June 2006, Russian crude oil and condensate production reached to the post-Soviet maximum of 9.7 million barrels (1, 540, 000m 3 ) per day. Exceeding production in 2000 by 3.2Mbbl/d (510, 000m 3 /d). Russian export consists more than 5Mbbl/d (790, 000m 3 /d) of oil and nearly 2Mbbl/d (320, 000m 3 /d) of refined products, which go mainly to the Europe market. The domestic demand in 2005 was 2.6Mbbl/d (410, 000m 3 /d) in averaged. [ 5 ] It is also the main transit country for oil from Kazakhstan.
Russia is by far the world's largest natural gas exporter. Most, but not all authorities believe that Russia has the world's largest proven reserves of natural gas. Sources that consider that Russia has by far the largest proven reserves include the US CIA (47.6 trillion cubic meters), [ 6 ] the US Energy Information Administration (47.8 tcm), [ 7 ] and OPEC (48.7 tcm). [ 8 ] However, BP credits Russia with only 31.3 tcm as of 1 January 2014, [ 9 ] which would place it in second place, slightly behind Iran (33.1 to 33.8 tcm, depending on the source). In addition to having the world's largest proved reserves of natural gas, according to US Geological Survey estimations, Russia is also likely to have the world's largest volume of still-undiscovered natural gas: a mean probable volume of 6.7 trillion cubic meters. The USGS estimate of Russia's undiscovered oil is 22 billion barrels, second in the world only to those of Iraq. [ 10 ] 
The Russian oil industry claims to be in need of huge investment. [ 11 ] Strong growth in the Russian economy means that local demand for energy of all types (oil, gas, nuclear, coal, hydro, electricity) is continuing to grow.
Contents
1 Russia's oil and gas companies , 2 Academic institutions , 3 See also , 4 References , 5 External links , . 
Russia's oil and gas companies [ edit ] 
The biggest Russian oil company is Rosneft followed by Lukoil, Surgutneftegaz, Gazprom Neft and Tatneft. [ 12 ] All oil trunk pipelines (except Caspian Pipeline Consortium) are owned and operated by the state-owned monopoly Transneft and oil products pipeline are owned and operated by its subsidiary Transnefteproduct.
Gazprom (Russia's state-run natural gas monopoly; world's biggest gas exploration and production company), Lukoil, Rosneft (State-owned Russian oil and gas exploration company), Surgutneftegas, Tatneft, Northgas, Transneft (Russia's pipeline monopoly), Bashneft (Russian oil refining company one of the largest producer of oil products in the country), Russneft, Itera, Novatek, Rusneftegaz, . 
Academic institutions [ edit ] 
Gubkin Russian State University of Oil and Gas (Moscow), Saint Petersburg Mining Institute -Oil and Gas Department (Saint Petersburg), Siberian Research Institute of Petroleum Industry (SibNIINP), Russia Petroleum Research Exploration Institute (VNIGRI) of Ministry of Natural Resources and Ecology of the Russian Federation and the Russian Academy of Sciences (RAN)., Tyumen State Oil and Gas University Tyumen), Ufa State Petroleum Technological University, Almetyevsk State Petroleum Institute (Almetyevsk), . 
See also [ edit ] 
Energy policy of Russia, Oil reserves in Russia, Energy policy of the Soviet Union, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ http://www.eia.doe.gov/emeu/aer/pdf/pages/sec11_10.pdf , ^ a b Russian Oil Output Climbed 1.2 Percent in 2009 Bloomberg Retrieved on 2 January 2010 , ^ Russia, Background, February 2005. U.S. Department of Energy , ^ Key World Energy Statistics. 2006 Edition, International Energy Agency 2006 , ^ Woodruff, Yulia (2006). "Russian oil industry between state and market". Fundamentals of the global oil and gas industry, 2006 . Petroleum Economist. ISBN978-1-86186-266-2. , ^ Natural gas - proved reserves, accessed 1 Dec. 2013. , ^ US Energy Information Administration, International statistics, accessed 1 Dec. 2013. , ^ OPEC, Table 3.2 Natural gas proven reserves by country, accessed 1 Dec 2013. , ^ BP, BP Statistical Review of World Energy, June 2014. , ^ Christopher J. Schenk, An Estimate of Undiscovered Conventional Oil and Gas Resources of the World, 2012, US Geological Survey, Fact Sheet 2012-3042 , ^ 'Threat' to future of Russia oil - Lukoil, April 2008. , ^ LUKoil to lose the lead soon. Rosneft will become Russiaas leading oil producer in 2007, Analytical department of RIA RosBusinessConsulting , External links [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Petroleum industry in Russia ., All Russian oil companies on Russian Business Map MXKR.ru., Country Analysis: Russia's Oil and Natural Gas., "Major Russian Companies: Some Details" (1995-1996), Joint Project by Expert Magazine and Menatep Bank, undated., "Russia's oil renaissance, " BBC, 24 June 2002., History of Oil in Russia, Sibneft, 2003., "The Oil and Gas Industry": 1999-2000 and 2000-2004, Kommersant , 23 October 2001 and 17 May 2004., David Correll, "Russia: the new oil giant. An industry perspective, " AMEC, July 2004., . 
v , t , e , . Economy of Russia , History Soviet Union, Privatization, 1998 financial crisis, Monetary reforms in Russia (1991, 1993, 1998), National Priority Projects, National champions, Stabilization Fund, Great Recession in Russia, Medvedev modernisation programme, Timeline of largest projects, . , Natural resources Timber, Mining, Aluminium, Oil reserves, Energy, Nuclear power, Geothermal power, Renewable energy, . , Agriculture Fishery, Hunting, Forestry, . , Industry Engineering, (Aircraft, Automotive, Tractor, timber and agricultural machinery, Defence, Shipbuilding, Space industry, Rolling stock manufacturers), Metallurgy, (Pipe Industry), Petroleum industry , Chemical industry, Science and technology, Food industry, . , Infrastructure Telecommunications, Transport Rail, Vehicle registration plates, . , . , Services Grocery retailing, Tourism, Gambling, Real estate, . , Finance Russian ruble, Account Chamber, Banking (Banks , Central Bank of Russia) , Federal budget, Moscow Exchange, National Pension Fund, Social Insurance Fund, Tax Code, Billionaires, . , Regional economies Natural resources of Primorsky Krai, Federal subjects by GRP, Federal subjects by GDP per capita, Federal subjects by HDI, Federal subjects by unemployment rate, . , Economic regions Central, Ural, North Caucasus, Volga, West Siberian, East Siberian, Volga-Vyatka, Northwestern, Central Black Earth, Far Eastern, Northern, . , Other Companies, Trade unions, . , Category, Commons, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry , Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Petroleum industry in Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia , Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . Petroleum industry in Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Petroleum_industry_in_Russia and oldid=631073001" Categories: Petroleum industry in Russia, . Hidden categories: Use dmy dates from May 2012, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
UOOOU, DNNNDDD, DDNDNDNNDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 25 October 2014 at 16:14.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
