
Politics of Europe - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of Europe 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search See also: Politics of the European Union 
The politics of Europe deals with the continually evolving politics within the continent. It is a topic far more detailed than other continents due to a number of factors including the long history of nation states in the region as well as the modern day trend towards increased political unity amongst the European states.
The current politics of Europe can be traced back to historical events within the continent. Likewise geography, economy and culture have contributed to the current political make-up of Europe.
Modern European politics is dominated by the European Union, since the fall of the Iron Curtain and the collapse of the Eastern Bloc of Communist states. After the end of the Cold War, the EU expanded eastward to include the former Communist countries. By 2013, it had 28 member states.
Contents
1 Modern political climate , 2 International alliances 2.1 Council of Europe , 2.2 European Union , 2.3 Commonwealth of Independent States , 2.4 North Atlantic Treaty Organisation , 2.5 GUAM Organization for Democracy and Economic Development , . , 3 Secessionist and devolutionary pressures 3.1 Belgium , 3.2 Bosnia and Herzegovina , 3.3 Denmark , 3.4 Finland , 3.5 France , 3.6 Georgia , 3.7 Italy , 3.8 Moldova , 3.9 Netherlands , 3.10 Norway , 3.11 Romania , 3.12 Russia , 3.13 Serbia , 3.14 Spain , 3.15 Sweden , 3.16 Ukraine , 3.17 United Kingdom , . , 4 References , 5 Politics by country , 6 Foreign relations by country , 7 See also , . 
Modern political climate [ edit ] 
Despite vastly improved relations between Russia and the Western European states since the end of the cold war, recently tensions have risen over the spread of "Western" organisations, particularly the EU and NATO, eastwards into former USSR states.
Most European states have either joined, or stated their ambition to join, the European Union.
There are few conflicts within Europe, although there remain problems in the Balkans, the Caucasus, Northern Ireland in United Kingdom and the Basque Country in Spain.
According to 2007 data published in 2008 by Freedom House, the countries of Europe that cannot be classified liberal electoral democracies are Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia, Kazakhstan, Kosovo and Russia. [ 1 ] 
International alliances [ edit ] 
EU member state EEA member or EU candidate state GUAM member state EurAsEC member state 
European states are members of a large number of international organisations, mainly economical, although several are political, or both. The main political unions are detailed below. 
Council of Europe [ edit ] 
Main article: Council of Europe 
The Council of Europe is the only pan-European organisation of which almost all European states are members. It is involved in a broad range of activities, including treaties and other programmes to harmonise law and regulations between its member states, in policy areas such as human rights, citizenship, bioethics, mutual recognition, private international law, environmental and heritage protection, rights of minority cultural and linguistic groups, etc. It is much closer in its nature to a traditional international organisation rather than the quasi-federal entity which is the EU a it negotiates treaties which must be ratified individually, and which generally lack direct effect or individual legal access to an international court a thus it could be compared to a regional version of the United Nations. However, in the area of human rights, it has become much more quasi-federal in nature, through the European Convention on Human Rights and its associated court.
European Union [ edit ] 
Also see: Politics of the European Union, Foreign relations of the European Union 
The European Union, or EU, is an intergovernmental and supranational union of 28 states. It has many activities, the most important being a common single market, consisting of a customs union, a single currency (adopted by 15 out of 28 member states(2008)), a Common Agricultural Policy and a Common Fisheries Policy. The European Union also has various initiatives to co-ordinate activities of the member states.
The EU, considered as a unit, has the largest economy in the world with a nominal GDP of 15.849 trillion USD in 2007. There is also a trend of moving towards increased co-operation in terms of common defence and foreign policy.
The union has evolved over time from a primarily economic union to an increasingly political one. This trend is highlighted by the increasing number of policy areas that fall within EU competence; political power has tended to shift upwards from the member states to the EU. The further development of the political competencies of the EU is the subject of heavy debate within and between some member states.
Commonwealth of Independent States [ edit ] 
The Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) is a confederation consisting of 12 of the 15 states of the former Soviet Union, (the exceptions being the three Baltic states). Although the CIS has few supranational powers, it is more than a purely symbolic organisation and possesses co-ordinating powers in the realm of trade, finance, lawmaking and security. The most significant issue for the CIS is the establishment of a full-fledged free trade zone and economic union between the member states, launched in 2005. It has also promoted co-operation on democratisation and cross-border crime prevention.
North Atlantic Treaty Organisation [ edit ] 
The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) is a military alliance of mainly European states, together with the United States of America and Canada. The organisation was founded as a collective security measure following Second World War.
This provision was intended so that if the Soviet Union launched an attack against the European allies of the United States, it would be treated as if it were an attack on the United States itself, which had the biggest military and could thus provide the most significant retaliation. However, the feared Soviet invasion of Europe never came. Instead, the provision was invoked for the first time in the treaty's history on 12 September 2001, in response to the attacks of 11 September on the United States the day before.
GUAM Organization for Democracy and Economic Development [ edit ] 
GUAM Organization for Democracy and Economic Development is a regional organisation of four CIS states: Georgia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan, and Moldova. The group was created as a way of countering the influence of Russia in the area, and it has received backing and encouragement from the United States . Though at one point it was generally considered to have stagnated, recent developments have caused speculation on the possible revival of the organisation.
Secessionist and devolutionary pressures [ edit ] 
It should be noted that these movements, seeking either autonomy or independence, vary greatly in their popular support and political profile, from fringe movements to mainstream campaigns.
Belgium [ edit ] 
Two of Belgium's parties, the Vlaams Belang and New-Flemish Alliance, want Flanders, the northern part of Belgium, to become independent. Other Flemish parties plead for more regional autonomy. There is also a minor movement aiming at unification of Flanders with the Netherlands (see Greater Netherlands).
The autonomous Belgian region of Wallonia has a movement seeking unification with France.
Bosnia and Herzegovina [ edit ] 
Some inhabitants of Republika Srpska, one of the two constituent entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina (the other being the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina), the vast majority of them being ethnic Serbs, would opt for independence from Bosnia and Herzegovina and unification with Serbia. Republika Srpska comprises 49f the territory of Bosnia and functions independently from the rest of the country in many spheres. Even though independence is not on the official government agenda, Serbian politicians from the region see a link between a possible future status of Kosovo and the status of Republika Srpska.
Croats, who remain a constituent nation of Bosnia and Herzegovina remain united with ethnic Bosniacs in a joint entity. Some Bosnian Croat politicians have proposed a separate constituent entity for Croats along the lines of the Republika Srpska.
Denmark [ edit ] 
The Danish territories of Greenland and Faroe Islands have very strong independence movements. Greenland's autonomy marks it as a constituent country under the Danish kingdom.
Finland [ edit ] 
The Aland Islands has an autonomy. In 2003, the Alandian separatist party Alands Framtid was formed. There has not been much support for full independence since the Independence of Finland, but in the last years the support has slightly grown.
France [ edit ] 
The Mediterranean island of Corsica has a significant and growing group calling for independence from France. There are also movements in the Brittany region of northern France who wish to regain independence lost in 1532, and in Savoy in the south east, which was annexed to France following a disputed referendum in 1860.
Parts of Navarre, Basque Country and Catalonia cross into France.
Georgia [ edit ] 
South Ossetia declared independence on 28 November 1991, and Abkhazia on 23 July 1992. Following the brief 2008 South Ossetia war, both entities were partially recognised as independent by several UN member states. Georgia considers both "occupied territories" within its own borders.
Italy [ edit ] 
Lega Nord, a party which is especially strong in Veneto (Liga Veneta) and Lombardy (Lega Lombarda), has promoted either secession or larger autonomy for Northern Italy under the name Padania, blaming Southern Italy for siphoning away tax funds and blocking progress. Similar groups are active in Southern Italy, but can rely on a far smaller electoral support. Plenty of autonomist and separatist parties are active in Northern regions: Valdostan Union, South Tyrolean People's Party, Die Freiheitlichen, Trentino Tyrolean Autonomist Party, North-East Union, Veneto State, etc.
In the province of South Tyrol the South Tyrolean Freedom party, which campaigned for the reunion of the province with Austria, while in Sardinia the Independence Republic of Sardinia supports outright independence for the region. The Mediterranean region is home to many autonomist parties: Sardinian Action Party, Sardinian Reformers, Sardinian People's Party, Sardinian Democratic Union, Red Moors, etc.
Autonomist presidents lead four out twenty regions of Italy: Veneto (Luca Zaia, Liga Veneta), Piedmont (Roberto Cota, Lega Nord Piemont), Aosta Valley (Augusto Rollandin, Valdostan Union) and Trentino-Alto Adige/SAdtirol (Lorenzo Dellai, Union for Trentino).
Moldova [ edit ] 
The eastern Moldovan region of Transnistria, which has a large ethnic Russian and Ukrainian population, has declared independence from Moldova on 2 September 1990. Despite having no control over the region, the Moldovan government refuses to recognise this claim. There is a significant movement in Moldova and Romania aiming at the reunification of the two countries.
Netherlands [ edit ] 
The Frisian National Party seeks more autonomy for Friesland without striving for complete independence. The preservation of Frisian culture is an important goal of the party.
Norway [ edit ] 
The Sami people desire independence for Lapland. [ 2 ] 
Romania [ edit ] 
Before the Treaty of Trianon after World War I, Transylvania belonged to Austria-Hungary, and it contains minorities of ethnic Hungarians who desire autonomy in the country.
Russia [ edit ] 
Several of Russia's regions have independence movements, mostly in the state's north Caucasus border. The most notable of these are Chechnya, Dagestan and Ingushetia, which have well supported guerrilla groups involved in open conflict with the Russian authorities.
Some Tatar people seek independence for the region of Tatarstan [ citation needed ] 
Serbia [ edit ] 
The province of Kosovo is the subject of a long-running political and territorial dispute between the Serbian (and previously, the Yugoslav) government and Kosovo's largely ethnic-Albanian population. International negotiations began in 2006 to determine final status ( See Kosovo status process ). Kosovo declared independence on 17 February 2008.
Spain [ edit ] 
Within Spain there are independence movements in some of the autonomous regions, notably the regions that have co-official languages such as Catalonia, Basque country, and Galicia. These are mostly peaceful but some, such as ETA and Terra Lliure, have used violent means.
Sweden [ edit ] 
Some Sami people desire independence for Lapland. [ citation needed ] 
Ukraine [ edit ] 
The Ukrainian autonomous region of Crimea has several movements, calling either for greater autonomy, complete independence, or unification with Russia.
The East of the country is majority Russophone, and there are calls from some groups for the area to leave Ukraine and join Russia. This is particularly the case since the pro-western Victor Yuschenko became president.
United Kingdom [ edit ] 
In Northern Ireland, Sinn FAin and the Social Democratic Labour Party achieve between them over 40f the vote at elections, [ 3 ] with both parties supporting Northern Ireland leaving the United Kingdom and joining the Republic of Ireland to create a United Ireland. [ 4 ] [ 5 ] 
In Scotland, the Scottish National Party, Scottish Green Party, and Scottish Socialist Party support Scottish independence. The SNP won an outright majority at the Scottish Parliament general election, 2011 and held the Scottish independence referendum, 2014, in which independence lost in a very close vote.
In Wales, Plaid Cymru supports Welsh independence.
In England, there are movements, such as the English Democrats, calling for a devolved English Parliament. [ 6 ] [ 7 ] There are also movements, such as the Wessex Regionalists, calling for devolution of power to the English regions. Movements seeking autonomy [ 8 ] [ 9 ] or independence [ 10 ] are also present in the peninsula of Cornwall.
References [ edit ] 
^ freedomhouse.org: Map of Freedom in the World, 2008 , ^ [1] , ^ Northern Ireland election overview BBC News, 13 March 2007 , ^ Assembly Manifesto 2007 sinnfeinassembly.com, accessed 29 December 2008 , ^ SDLP Manifesto sdlp.ie, accessed 29 December 2008 , ^ "English Parliament" . Retrieved 4 July 2013 . , ^ "No English parliament - Falconer". 10 March 2006 . Retrieved 4 July 2013 . , ^ "About the Campaign for a Cornish Assembly" . Retrieved 29 December 2008 . , ^ "Policies - Mebyon Kernow" . Retrieved 29 December 2008 . , ^ "How three Cornish men and a raid on King Arthur's castle rocked English Heritage". 19 January 2002 . Retrieved 4 July 2013 . , Politics by country [ edit ] 
v , t , e , . Politics of Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , Foreign relations by country [ edit ] 
v , t , e , . Foreign relations of European countries , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, Sovereign Military Order of Malta, . , See also [ edit ] 
International organisations in Europe, Politics of the European Union, European Neighbourhood Policy, Europe, Culture of Europe, Economy of Europe, Geography of Europe, History of Europe, List of conflicts in Europe, List of Europe-related topics, OSCE countries statistics, . 
v , t , e , . Europetopics , History 
Chronology Prehistory, Classical antiquity, Late Antiquity, Middle Ages, Early modernity, Pax Europaea, Crisis situations and protests since 2000, . , By topic Military, Sovereignty predecessor states, . , . , Geography 
Areas and populations, Largest metropolitan areas, Cities, Extreme points, Geology, Islands, Lakes, Mountains, Rivers, Sovereign states and dependent territories by population, . , Villages, . , Politics 
Eurosphere, International organisations, Integration, Law, Politics , Post-Soviet Europe, Transatlantic relations, . , Intergovernmental Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), Council of Europe (CoE), Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO), GUAM Organization, North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO), Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) statistics, . , . , European Union Economy relations, free trade agreements, . , Education, European Economic Area (EEA), European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP), European Union Customs Union (EUCU), Eurozone, Foreign relations, Members enlargement, . , Politics, Schengen Area, Statistics, Visa policy, . , Economy 
Financial (and social) rankings, Free trade areas, Telecommunications, Transport, . , Intergovernmental Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA), Customs Union of Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Russia (CUBKR), Eurasian Economic Community (EAEC), European Free Trade Association (EFTA), . , Sovereign
states by Average wage, Budget revenues per capita, . , Corruption index, GDP (nominal) per capita, . , GDP (PPP) per capita, . , GNI (nominal) per capita, GNI (PPP) per capita, HDI, Internet users, Minimum wage, Press Freedom Index, Unemployment rate, . , Society 
Etiquette, Social (and financial) rankings, Languages endangered, . , Universities Bologna Process, Erasmus, . , . , Culture Art painting, sculpture, . , Architecture, Capital of Culture, Cinema film festivals, . , Classical music, Cuisine, Literature, Philosophy, Religion Christianity, Islam, Judaism, . , Sport, Symbols, . , Demographics Ageing, Ethnic groups genetic history, . , Immigration, Life expectancy, Retirement, . , Outline, Index, . Category, Portal, WikiProject, Maps, . , Wikimedia Commons has media related to Politics of Europe ., Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_Europe and oldid=631497731" Categories: Politics of Europe, . Hidden categories: Use British English from November 2013, Use dmy dates from November 2013, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from June 2010, Articles with unsourced statements from June 2007, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
FranAais, Bahasa Indonesia, PortuguAs, aaaaa, aaa, TArkAe, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 28 October 2014 at 18:46.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
