
Portal:Politics - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Portal:Politics 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search Wikipedia portals 
Culture , Geography , Health , History , Mathematics , Natural sciences , People , Philosophy , Religion , Society , Technology , . 
Politics : Anarchism A Communism A Conservatism A Fascism A Feminism A Liberalism A Libertarianism A Men's rights A Political science A Socialism 
, Main , Categories and topics , Tasks and projects , edit 
The Politics Portal 
Shortcut: P:POLITICS , . 
Politics are the process and method of gaining or maintaining support for public or common action: the conduct of decision-making for groups. Although it is usually applied to governments, political behavior is also observed in corporate, academic, religious, and other institutions. Political science is the field devoted to studying political behavior and examining the acquisition and application of power, or the ability to impose one's will on another. Its practitioners are known as political scientists. Political scientists look at elections, public opinion, institutional activities (how legislatures act, the relative importance of various sources of political power), the ideologies behind various politicians and interest groups, how politicians achieve and wield their influence, and so on.
More about politicsa , Show new selections edit 
Selected article 
The Convention of 1832 was the first political gathering of colonists in Mexican Texas. Delegates sought reforms from the Mexican government and hoped to quell the widespread belief that settlers in Texas wished to secede from Mexico. The convention was the first of a series of unsuccessful attempts at political negotiation that eventually led to the Texas Revolution. On October 1, 1832, 55 political delegates met at San Felipe de Austin to petition for changes in the governance of Texas. Notably absent was any representation from San Antonio de BAxar, where many of the native Mexican settlers ( Tejanos ) lived. The delegates elected Stephen F. Austin (pictured) , a highly respected immigrant, as president of the convention. Delegates passed a series of resolutions requesting, among other things, a repeal of the immigration restrictions, a three-year exclusion from custom duties enforcement, permission to form an armed militia and independent statehood. They also voted themselves the power to call future conventions. Before the petition could be delivered to Mexico City, the political chief of Texas, RamAn MAsquiz, ruled that the convention was illegal and annulled the resolutions. In a compromise, the ayuntamiento (city council) of San Antonio de BAxar drafted a new petition with similar language to the convention resolutions and submitted it through proper legal channels. MAsquiz forwarded the new document to the Mexican Congress. ( more... )
...Archive/Nominations , More... 
, edit 
Featured picture 
Credit: Lithograph: Currier and Ives, Restoration: Lise Broer , A campaign poster from the National Union Party during the US election of 1864, showing presidential candidate Abraham Lincoln (left) and his running-mate Andrew Johnson. The Republican Party changed its name and selected Johnson, a former Democrat, to draw support from War Democrats during the Civil War.
...Archive/Nominations , More... 
, edit 
Did you know... 
...that Thutmose I was the first Pharaoh to be buried in the Valley of the Kings?, . 
...that Mussolini's Quota 90 fixed the lira exchange rate against the pound sterling at the prevailing rate from five years earlier, when he assumed power?, ...that the energy lobby contributed 19 million dollars to United States political campaigns in the 2006 election cycle?, ...that the lifelong Democrat Jim Naugle is in his sixth straight term as the Mayor of Fort Lauderdale and supported only Republicans for President since 1968?, . 
...that just before the invasion of Poland, members of the German minority from Deutscher Volksverband were trained in sabotage by the Abwehr agents arriving in Poland from Germany?, . 
...that the 2013 United States federal budget may impose a 23ut on the defense budget due to the Budget Control Act of 2011, according to Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta?, . 
...Archive/Nominations , More... 
, edit 
Selected biography 
Nikita Khrushchev (1894a1971) led the Soviet Union during the Cold War. He served as First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union from 1953 to 1964, and as Chairman of the Council of Ministers, or Premier, from 1958 to 1964. Khrushchev was responsible for the partial de-Stalinization of the Soviet Union, for backing the progress of the world's early space program, and for several relatively liberal reforms in areas of domestic policy. Khrushchev was born in the Russian village of Kalinovka in 1894. With the help of Lazar Kaganovich, he worked his way up the Soviet hierarchy. He supported Stalin's purges, and approved thousands of arrests. Stalin's political heirs fought for power after his death in 1953, a struggle in which Khrushchev, after several years, emerged triumphant. On February 25, 1956, at the Twentieth Party Congress, he delivered the "Secret Speech", vilifying Stalin and ushering in a less repressive era in the Soviet Union. Hoping eventually to rely on missiles for national defense, Khrushchev ordered major cuts in conventional forces. Despite the cuts, Khrushchev's rule saw the tensest years of the Cold War, culminating in the Cuban Missile Crisis.
...Archive/Nominations , More... 
, edit 
News and Current Events 
Wikinews on Politics and conflicts January 27: Tunisia approves new constitution, January 26: Ukrainian opposition rejects power-sharing deal, January 22: Canadian Prime Minister in first Middle East visit: Canadian assistance to Palestinian Authority, January 17: Australia announces plans to close five mainland refugee detention centres, January 13: Indonesian authorities report refugee boats pushed back by Australian Navy, January 11: Nauru raises media visa application fee from AU$200 to $8, 000, January 11: Ariel Sharon, former Prime Minister of Israel, dies at 85, January 2: Israel releases 26 Palestinian prisoners, December 26: Palestinian released from Israeli prison following eight-month hunger strike, December 25: Alan Turing given posthumous pardon, . 
Other current events :
Iran's nuclear program, United States debt-ceiling crisis, European sovereign-debt crisis, . edit 
In this month 
November 4, 1980 a Ronald Reagan defeats Jimmy Carter in the presidential election and becomes the 40th President of the United States., November 4, 2008 a Barack Obama was elected as the 44th President of the United States, becoming the first African American elected to the office. Congressional elections for the House of Representatives and one third of the Senators (second class) were also held., November 7, 2000 a Hillary Rodham Clinton is elected to the United States Senate, becoming the first First Lady of the United States to win public office., November 7, 1917 a The workers of the Petrograd Soviet in Russia, led by the Bolshevik Party and leader Vladimir Lenin, storm the Winter Palace and successfully destroy the Kerensky Provisional Government, resulting in the first overthrow of capitalism in history., November 11, 2004 a Former Palestinian President Yasser Arafat dies from a mysterious illness, aged 75., November 21, 2004 a Ukrainian presidential election, 2004: Viktor Yanukovych is declared the winner in the final round. International election observers express severe criticism, and large crowds gather in a protest rally in Kiev; 12 days later, the Supreme Court annuls the result, and a new poll is scheduled., November 22, a In Dallas, Texas, United States President John F. Kennedy is assassinated, Texas Governor John B. Connally is seriously wounded, and Vice President Lyndon Baines Johnson becomes the 36th President. All television coverage for the next four days is devoted to the assassination, its aftermath, the procession of the horsedrawn casket to the Capitol Rotunda, and the funeral of President Kennedy. Stores and businesses shut down for the entire weekend and Monday, in tribute., . More anniversaries... edit 
Selected quote 
Contrary to the rumors you have heard, I was not born in a manger. I was actually born on Krypton and sent here by my father, Jor-El, to save the planet Earth. a Barack Obama , United States Senator from Illinois (2005-2008), 44th President of the United States (2009-), October 2008 , ...Archive/Nominations , More... , edit 
Related portals 
, Anarchism , Barack Obama , Canadian politics , Communism , Conservatism , Criminal justice , European Union , Freedom of speech , Genocide , Government of India , Government of Pakistan , Government of the United States , Human rights , Law , Liberalism , Libertarianism , NATO , Political science , Presidency of the Philippines , SAARC , Social and political philosophy , Socialism , United Nations , War , edit 
Wikimedia 
The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject: 
Wikibooks , Wikimedia Commons , Wikinews , Wikiquote , Wikisource , Wikiversity , Wikivoyage , Wiktionary , Wikidata , Books, Media, News, Quotations, Texts, Learning resources, Travel guides, Definitions, Database, What are portals? , List of portals , Featured portals , . Purge server cache Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Politics and oldid=614739903" Categories: Politics portals, Politics portal, . Hidden categories: Featured portals, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Portal , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
Alemannisch, OUOOOUO, aaaaa, DNDDDNNDD, Bosanski, AeAtina, Deutsch, Eesti, Esperanto, FranAais, aaaaaa, Bahasa Indonesia, Italiano, Magyar, DDDDDDDNDD, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk nynorsk, Occitan, DDND DDNDD, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, Runa Simi, DNNNDDD, SlovenAina, Soomaaliga, Suomi, aaaaa, DDNDNND/tatarAa, aaa, TArkAe, West-Vlams, ce, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 28 June 2014 at 09:45.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
