
Prime Minister of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Prime Minister of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article possibly contains original research . Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (June 2010) , This article relies largely or entirely upon a single source . Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please help improve this article by introducing citations to additional sources. (June 2010) , DNDDNDDDNDDN DNDDDNDDNNNDD DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD Coat of arms of the Russian Federation , Incumbent
Dmitry Medvedev 
since8 May 2012 , Residence White House, Moscow, Appointer The President, Inaugural holder Sergei Witte, Formation 6 November 1905, Website http://premier.gov.ru/ (Russian) , Russia , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Russia , Constitution, Law, . Impeachment, Mental Health Law, Russian Criminal Code, Tax Code, . , Presidency President: Vladimir Putin, . Presidential Administration, Security Council, State Council, . , Executive Prime Minister : Dmitry Medvedev, . Government, Cabinet (14th) , . , Legislature Federal Assembly, Federation Council, State Duma, . , . , Judiciary Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, Prosecutor General, Supreme Court of Arbitration, Legal system, . , Elections Presidential elections, Legislative elections, Central Election Commission, Electoral geography, Political parties, . , Foreign relations United Nations, ArabaIsraeli conflict, . , Related topics Administrative divisions, Federal subjects, Regional parliaments, Armed forces, Martial law, . , Civic Chamber, Accounts Chamber, E-Government, Opposition, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The Chairman of the Government of the Russian Federation (Russian: DNDDNDDDNDDN DNDDDNDDNNNDD DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD, Romanized: Predsedatel' Pravitel'stva Rossiyskoy Federatsii ), colloquially referred to as the Prime Minister (Russian: DNDDNDN-DDDDNNN, Romanized: Prem'yer-ministr ) is the second most powerful official of the Russian Federation, who, under Article 24 of the Federal Constitutional Law On the Government of the Russian Federation , "heads the Government of the Russian Federation". [ 1 ] 
Due to the central role of the President of Russia in the political system, the activities of the executive branch (including the Prime Minister) are significantly influenced by the head of state (for example, it is the President who appoints and dismisses the Prime Minister and other members of the Government; the President may chair the meetings of the cabinet and give obligatory orders to the Prime Minister and other members of the Government, the President may also revoke any act of the Government).
The use of the term "Prime Minister" is strictly informal and is never used by the Russian Constitution, Federal Laws and other laws.
Contents
1 Historical background , 2 Duties and competences , 3 Appointment , 4 Removal from office , 5 Succession of the presidency , 6 List of heads of government , 7 See also , 8 References , 9 External links , . 
Historical background [ edit ] 
Further information: List of heads of government of Russia, Premier of the Soviet Union and List of leaders of the Russian SFSR 
During the Imperial era, the Chairman of the Russian Council of Ministers, referred to as the prime minister, was appointed by the Emperor; his precursor, the Chairman of the Committee of Ministers, had no separate power.
In the era of the Soviet Union, the head of government was the Chairman of Council of People's Commissars (until 1946) and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers (after 1946). People who held those positions are sometimes referred to as the prime ministers. They may have also been referred to as Premier of Ministers, or simply premier.
The current Chairman of the Government of the Russian Federation is Dmitry Medvedev. [ 2 ] 
Duties and competences [ edit ] 
In general, the Prime Minister serves more of an administrative role, nominating members of the Cabinet and implementing domestic policy. In accordance with the federal constitutional law "On the Government of the Russian Federation" the Prime Minister exercises the following duties:
determines the operating priorities of the Government and organizes its work in accordance with the Constitution, federal constitutional laws, federal laws and Presidential decrees, submits to the President proposals on the structure and functions of the central institutions of the executive branch (e.g. ministries and federal agencies); [ 3 ] , nominates the vice prime ministers, federal ministers and other officers and presents them to the President;, submits to the President proposals on punishment and rewards of the Government members;, represents the Government as an institution in foreign relations and inside the country;, heads the sessions of the Government and its Presidium where he has the decisive vote;, signs the acts of the Government;, distributes duties among members of the Government;, systematically informs the President about the Government activities;, . 
The Prime Minister is ex officio a member of:
The Security Council of the Russian Federation;, The Council of the Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Independent States;, The Supreme State Council of the Union State of Russia and Belarus;, The Council of the Heads of Government of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization;, The Interstate Council of the Eurasian Economic Community (EurAsEC);, . 
Appointment [ edit ] 
The Chairman of the Government is appointed by the President of Russia, subject to the consent of the State Duma. Unlike most other "Prime Ministers", who are also elected members of the legislative body or parliament, the Chairman of the Government of Russia can be any Russian citizen, as long as they do not also hold citizenship of another country.
Under law, the President shall nominate a new Chairman of the Government within two weeks of the resignation of a previous government or inauguration ceremony of President. The State Duma is to discuss the matter within two weeks of the nomination and make a decision. Should the State Duma decide to give the President its approval, the President may immediately sign the respective appointment decree. Should the State Duma refuse to give its approval, the President will have to nominate another (or the same) candidate within one week of the rejection of the previous candidate.
Should the State Duma reject candidates nominated by the President for three times consecutively, the President shall dissolve it and call a new election, while the Prime Minister shall be appointed by the President without participation of the Duma. The State Duma may not be dissolved on these grounds during the last six months of the incumbent President's term, as well as in time of emergency, or war and in the event that the State Duma has initiated the impeachment of the incumbent President.
Other members of the Russian Government are appointed and dismissed by the President upon recommendation of the Chairman.
Removal from office [ edit ] 
, This section does not cite any references or sources . Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2014) , The Prime Minister may be dismissed by the President at any time at the President's own discretion. The Chairman may also tender his resignation to the President on his own initiative. The President may reject such resignation and oblige him to work further. The Prime Minister and the whole government are constitutionally obliged to resign after the inauguration of a newly elected President. The resignation of the Prime Minister automatically means the resignation of the whole government as a body.
Under certain circumstances, the President may also theoretically be forced to dismiss the Chairman and the whole government under pressure of the State Duma. For that to happen the State Duma has to pass a censure motion against the Government twice within three months. Normally, in this case the President has the right to choose whether to sack the government or to dissolve the Duma (and if the Duma passes the censure motion just once, the President may also choose "not to agree" with the decision of the Duma, which technically means that neither the cabinet nor the Duma are dismissed).
However, within one year from parliamentary elections the dissolution of the Duma is impossible on these grounds. That is why in this case the President does not have any other option but to dismiss the Government (even if he totally supports it). However, the President is theoretically free to appoint the very same person as an acting head of the cabinet for an indefinite period of time should finding a compromise with the parliament turn out to be impossible.
Succession of the presidency [ edit ] 
Main article: Acting President of Russia 
In case of the President's death, resignation or impeachment, the Prime Minister becomes a temporary president until new presidential elections which must take place within three months. The Prime Minister acting as president may not dissolve the State Duma, announce a referendum or propose amendments to the Constitution.
The Chairman of the Federation Council is the third important position after the President and the Prime Minister. In the case of incapacity of the President and Prime Minister, the chairman of the upper house of parliament becomes acting head of state. [ 4 ] [ 5 ] 
List of heads of government [ edit ] 
Main article: List of heads of government of Russia 
See also [ edit ] 
Sergei Stepashin, Sergei Kiriyenko's Cabinet, Yevgeny Primakov's Cabinet, Mikhail Fradkov's Second Cabinet, Dmitry Medvedev's Cabinet, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ DDDDNDDNDND DDDNNDNNNDDDDND DDDDD AD DDDDDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDA kremlin.ru 17 DDDDDNN 1997. , ^ "DDDNNDD DDDDDDDD NNDDNDDND DD DDNNN DNDDNDDDNDDN DNDDDNDDNNNDD DDNNDD - DDNDND DDDDD" (in Russian). , ^ "The Constitution of the Russian Federation: Section One, Chapter 6. a The Government of the Russian Federation". Bucknell University . Retrieved 2014-07-14 . , ^ "DDNN DNDDNDDDNDDN DDDDND DDDDNDNDD DD a NND NNDNDD DDNN D NNNDDD. D NDNNDD DDDDDNDDNDDDDNND DNDDDDDDND D DNDDNDND DDDDDD DNDDNDDDNDDN DDNNDDD DDDDNN DDNDDDDDND DDDDDD DDDDDDDDNN DDNNDDNNNDD." , ^ "DDNDDN N DDN NNDNND DDND D DDNNDDNNNDD DNDDNDDDNDDN DDDDND DDDDNDNDD? DDNDDN NND NND NDDDNDNDN, DD DD NDNDNNDDDNNN, DD DDDNNDNDN DDNNDNDDD." - DDNDDD DDNNDD , External links [ edit ] 
Official Website of the Prime Minister of Russia (Russian) , Official Site of the Government of Russia (Russian) , . 
v , t , e , . Heads of government of Russia , note: Acting chairmen shown in italics . Questionable Heads of Government are written in small case . , Russian Empire 
Supreme Privy Council (Menshikov A Apraksin A Golovkin A Osterman A Dmitry Mikhailovich Golitsyn A Tolstoy A Karl Fridrikh Golsteyn-Gottorpsky A Aleksey Grigoryevich Dolgorukov), Vasily Lukich Dolgorukov, (Vasily Vladimirovich Dolgorukov A Mikhail Mikhailovich Golitsyn), . , Cabinet ministers Golovkin, Osterman, Minikh, Osterman, . , Conferency ministers (Stepan Fyodorovich Apraksin A Mikhail Petrovich Bestuzhev-Ryumin A Mikhail Mikhailovich Golitsyn A Alexey Petrovich Bestuzhev-Ryumin A Buturlin A Peter Ivanovich Shuvalov A Mikhail Illarionovich Vorontsov A Trubetskoy A Alexander Ivanovich Shuvalov A Romanov), (Shakhovsky A Neplyuev), Roman Illarionovich Vorontsov, . , Imperial Council (Georg Lyudwig Golshteyn-Gottorpsky A Golsteyn-Beksky A Minikh A Trubetskoy A M.I. Vorontsov A Vilbua A Volkonsky A Melgunov), . , Council Affairs Strekalov, Samoylov, Veydemeyer, Derzhavin, Veydemeyer, . , Committee of Ministers Vorontsov , Rumyantsev, Vyazmitinov , Nikolay Ivanovich Saltykov, Lopukhin, Kochubey, Novosiltsev, Vasilchikov, Levashov, Chernyshov, Orlov, Bludov, Gagarin, Ignatyev, Valuyev, Reytern, Bunge, Durnovo, Witte, Goremykin, Stolypin, Kokovtsov , Kokovtsov, Goremykin, Styurmer, Trepov, Golitsyn, . , Russian Republic Lvov, Kerensky, . , Russian SFSR Lenin, Rykov, Syrtsov, Sulimov, Bulganin, Vakhrushev, Khokhlov, Kosygin, Rodionov, Chernousov, Puzanov, Yasnov, Kozlov, Polyansky, Voronov, Solomentsev, Vorotnikov, Vlasov, Silayev, Lobov , Yeltsin, . , Soviet Union Lenin, Rykov, Molotov, Stalin, Malenkov, Bulganin, Khrushchev, Kosygin, Tikhonov, Ryzhkov, Pavlov, Silayev, . , Russian Federation Yeltsin, Gaidar, Chernomyrdin, Kiriyenko, Chernomyrdin , Primakov, Stepashin, Putin, Kasyanov, Khristenko , Fradkov, Zubkov, Putin, Medvedev, . , Council of Ministers of Russia, Heads of Government, Premiers of the USSR, . , v , t , e , . Heads of state and government of Europe , Heads
of state 
UN members 
and observers Albania, Andorra, Armenia 1 , Austria, Azerbaijan 1 , Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus 1 , Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia 1 , Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan 1 , Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russian Federation 1 , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey 1 , Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , Partially recognised 2 Abkhazia 1 , Kosovo, Northern Cyprus 1 , South Ossetia 1 , . , Unrecognised states 3 Nagorno-Karabakh 1 , Transnistria, . , Heads of
government 
UN members 
and observers Albania, Andorra, Armenia 1 , Austria, Azerbaijan 1 , Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus 1 , Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia 1 , Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan 1 , Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russian Federation 1 , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey 1 , Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , Partially recognised 2 Abkhazia 1 , Kosovo, Northern Cyprus 1 , South Ossetia 1 , . , Unrecognised states 3 Nagorno-Karabakh 1 , Transnistria, . , Partially or entirely in Asia, depending on the definition of the EuropeaAsia border., States recognised by at least one United Nations member., States not recognised by any United Nations members., v , t , e , . Government of the Russian Federation , Offices subordinated to the President of Russia , Ministry of Internal Affairs Police of the Russian Federation, Internal Troops, . , Ministry for Affairs of Civil Defence, Emergencies and Disaster Relief Russian State Fire Service, State Inspectorate for Small Ships, . , Ministry of Foreign Affairs Agency of CIS affairs, . , Ministry of Defence Service of Military-Technical Cooperation, Service of Technical and Export Control, Service for Defence Contracts, Agency of Special Construction, . , Ministry of Justice Federal Penitentiary Service, Service of Court Bailiffs, . , Presidential Services
and Directorates Foreign Intelligence Service, Federal Security Service, Federal Drug Control Service of Russia, Federal Protective Service, Special Communications Service, State Courier Service, Chief Directorate of Special Programs of the President, Federal Financial Monitoring, Directorate of the President, . , Offices subordinated to Government of Russia head by the Chairman , Ministry of Health Service of Supervision in the Sphere of Public Health Services, Medical and Biologic Agency, . , Ministry of Culture Federal Archival Agency, . , Ministry of Education
and Science Service for Supervision in the Sphere of Education and Science, Service for Intellectual Property, Patents and Trademarks, Agency of Education, Agency of Science and Innovation, Federal Youth Agency, . , Ministry of Natural Resources
and Environment Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring, Service of Supervision in Sphere of Wildlife Management, Agency of Water Resources, Agency on the use of Mineral Resources, . , Ministry of Industry and Trade Agency of Technical Regulation and Metrology, . , Ministry of Regional Development , Ministry for Development of Russian Far East , Ministry of Crimean Affairs , Ministry of Communications
and Mass Media Agency of Communication, Agency on Information Technologies, Federal Agency on Press and Mass Communications of the Russian Federation, Federal Service for Supervision of Communications, Information Technology and Mass Media, . , Ministry of Agriculture Service of Veterinary and Phytosanitary Supervision, Agency of Forestry, Agency of Fisheries, . , Ministry of Sport , Ministry of Construction, Housing and Utilities , Ministry of Transport Federal Service of Supervision of Transport, Air Transport Agency, Road Agency, Agency of Railway Transport, Agency of Sea and River Transport, . , Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Federal Service for Labour and Employment, . , Ministry of Finance Federal Tax Service, Service of Insurance Supervision, Service of Financial-Budgetary Supervision, Treasury, . , Ministry of Economic
Development Agency for State Reserves, Agency for State Property Management, State Statistics, . , Ministry of Energy Russian Energy Agency, . , Governmental committees, services and agencies Federal Migratory Service, Federal Antimonopoly Service, Federal Service for Supervision of Consumer Rights Protection and Human Welfare, Service for Hydrometeorology and the Monitoring of the Environment, Federal Customs Service, Service of Ecological, Technological and Nuclear Supervision, Service on Tariffs, Federal Financial Monitoring Service, Financial Market Service, Federal Space Agency, Agency for Deliveries of Military and Special Equipment of Material Means, Agency on the Arrangement of the State Boundary, Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Prime_Minister_of_Russia and oldid=629603047" Categories: Government of Russia, Heads of government of Russia, Russian leaders, . Hidden categories: CS1 Russian-language sources (ru), Articles that may contain original research from June 2010, All articles that may contain original research, Articles needing additional references from June 2010, All articles needing additional references, Articles with Russian-language external links, Articles containing Russian-language text, Articles needing additional references from July 2014, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DNDDDNNDD, Deutsch, IIIIIIII, EspaAol, iei, Hrvatski, Bahasa Indonesia, Aslenska, LatvieAu, DDDDDDDNDD, aeaee, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, Simple English, DNDNDD / srpski, Suomi, Svenska, DDNDNDNNDD, Tiang Viat, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 14 October 2014 at 17:46.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
