
Prostitution in Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Prostitution in Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Prostitution in Russia is illegal, but it is not a serious crime. The punishment for engagement in prostitution is a fine from 1500 up to 2000 rubles. [ 1 ] However, organizing prostitution is punishable by a prison term.
Contents
1 Historical overview , 2 "Tochka" , 3 Moscow city government actions , 4 Child prostitution, forced prostitution, and the trafficking of women , 5 In popular culture , 6 See also , 7 References , 8 External links , . 
Historical overview [ edit ] 
Prostitution in Russia became common after Peter the Great's military reforms that created a sizable class of unmarried men who were serving in the military. These soldiers started generating a demand for prostitution. Monarchs who followed Peter I had different approaches to prostitution, ranging from complete abolition to decriminalization.
By the late 19th century, prostitution was legal in the Russian Empire and prostitutes were issued a special "yellow ticket" ID cards. Numerous brothels existed in most cities, ranging greatly in class and price. Customers included diverse groups ranging from the aristocracy to the working class. Legally, only women were allowed to own brothels. However, illegal street prostitution was still dominated by male pimps. The term kot (Russian: DDN , cat) was used for a male pimp, while a female pimp was referred to as a bandersha (Russian: DDDDDNND ).
Prostitution has been illegal in Russia since the establishment of the Soviet Union. However, during the post-Soviet years, this industry experienced significant growth.
"Tochka" [ edit ] 
"Tochka" (NDNDD) is a popular euphemism for an outdoor market for prostitutes in Moscow and other large Russian cities, a word literally meaning 'point' or 'location' in Russian. (The word "tochka" may also be used in many other contexts. Its usage is originated from the notion "a point on the map". Initially it was used in military and geologist slang to denote, e.g., a military or geologist base or other specific location. Over time its usages was expanded. For example, in alcoholics' parlance, a "tochka" is a place where vodka is sold.)
Moscow city government actions [ edit ] 
Starting from the late 1990s, the Moscow city government made many noticeable attempts to eliminate prostitution in Russia and there is serious jail time for prostitution to eliminate these markets, other than to eliminate some of the more obvious points along Tverskaya, Moscow's main avenue. Tochkas are controlled by organized criminal gangs that bribe local police departments in order to remain in business. Instead, the city police randomly checked the documents of women traveling alone after dark. For this reason, prostitutes often carried a hundred rubles with which to bribe the police. [ 2 ] [ 3 ] [ 4 ] [ 5 ] [ 6 ] 
However, the problem of street prostitution in central Moscow was successfully eradicated with the improving of the economic situation by the second half of the years 2000-2010.
Child prostitution, forced prostitution, and the trafficking of women [ edit ] 
A 2006 report by World Vision Middle East/Eastern Europe funded by the Canadian government and supported by six United Nations agencies and the International Organization for Migration reported that the sexual exploitation of children, child trafficking and sexual violence towards minors is increasing and that Russia is becoming a new destination for child sex tourism [ citation needed ] . The report adds that some studies claim approximately 2 to 2.5 percent of Moscow's sex workers are minors.
Russia is a major source of women trafficked globally for the purpose of sexual exploitation [ 7 ] [ 8 ] Russia is also a significant destination and transit country for persons trafficked for sexual and labor exploitation from regional and neighboring countries into Russia, and on to Europe, Asia and North America. In Tel Aviv the number of brothels skyrocketed from 30 to 150 between 1996 and 2001alargely because of an influx of Russian prostitutes into Israel. [ 9 ] 
The International Labor Organization estimates that 20 percent of the five million illegal immigrants in Russia are victims of forced labor, which is a form of trafficking. There were reports of trafficking of children and of child sex tourism in Russia. The Russian government has made some effort to combat trafficking but has also been criticized for not complying with the minimum standards for eliminating it. [ 10 ] 
A large case of forced prostitution and mass murder was uncovered in 2007 near the industrial town of Nizhny Tagil. A gang of pimps had abducted girls and forced them to work as prostitutes in their brothel, killing the ones who refused. A mass grave with up to 30 victims was found. (See: Nizhny Tagil mass murder (2002-2007).)
An increasing number of women from different countries, including China, in Russia. [ 11 ] [ 12 ] [ 13 ] 
In popular culture [ edit ] 
The Yellow Passport - a 1916 U.S. feature movie, The Yellow Ticket - a 1931 U.S. feature movie, Intergirl a a 1989 dramatic film, Tochka a a 2006 dramatic film, . 
See also [ edit ] 
Human trafficking in Russia, Prostitution in Asia, Prostitution in Europe, . 
References [ edit ] 
Former brothel in Plotnikov Lane (DDDNDDDDD DDNDNDDD), Moscow ^ Code Of Administrative Offences Of The Russian Federation, art.6.11 , ^ Nyet to Trafficking, Nationalreview Online, June 18, 2003 , ^ Stanley, Alessandra. (1998-03-03) With Prostitution Booming, Legalization Tempts Russia a NYTimes.com. New York Times. Retrieved on 2011-03-30. , ^ Donna M. Hughes on Prostitution and Russia on National Review Online [ dead link ] . Nationalreview.com (2002-11-21). Retrieved on 2011-03-30. , ^ Russia's sex slave industry thrives, rights groups say. CNN (2008-07-18). Retrieved on 2011-03-30. , ^ Moscow targets sex trade at last World news. The Guardian. Retrieved on 2011-03-30. , ^ Authorities turn blind eye on Far East Russia women trafficking. Khaleejtimes.com (2005-02-12). Retrieved on 2011-03-30. , ^ Johanna Granville, "From Russia without Love: the 'Fourth Wave' of global human trafficking, " Demokratizatsiya ; vol. 12, no. 1 (winter 2004), pp. 147a155. , ^ The Skin Trade. TIME (2001-06-24). Retrieved on 2011-03-30. , ^ Human Trafficking and Modern-day Slavery a Russia. Gvnet.com. Retrieved on 2011-03-30. , ^ In Moscow, arrested three Chinese prostitutes . TIME (January 14, 2009). Retrieved on 2012.03.06 , ^ Prostitutes from China to Moscow was caught on the verses!. TIME (08.04.2011). Retrieved on 2012-03-06. , ^ aaecaecaeaaaChinese prostitutes in Russia , External links [ edit ] 
Human Trafficking and Modern-day Slavery a Russia a University of Massachusetts resource, Child prostitution a Russia a University of Massachusetts resource, Russian women fall prey to sex slavery abroad, Police bring home 3 sex slaves from China, . 
v , t , e , . Prostitution in Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia , Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . Prostitution in Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution , Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Prostitution_in_Russia and oldid=624633544" Categories: Russian society, Prostitution in Russia, Prostitution by country, . Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links, Articles with dead external links from February 2014, Articles containing Russian-language text, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from October 2012, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
iei, DNNNDDD, DDNDNDNNDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 8 September 2014 at 06:07.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
