
Prosecutor General of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Prosecutor General of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, Incumbent
Yury Chaika 
since23 June 2006 , Appointer nomination, Term length Five years, Inaugural holder Valentin Stepankov, Formation 28 February 1991, Website (Russian) http://www.genproc.gov.ru, The Prosecutor General of Russia (also Attorney General of Russia, Russian: DDDDNDDNDND DNDDNNDN DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD ) heads the system of official prosecution in courts known as the Office of the Prosecutor General of Russian Federation (DDDDNDDNDDN DNDDNNDNNND DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD). The Prosecutor General remains the most powerful component of the Russian judicial system. [ 1 ] 
Contents
1 Mission , 2 Appointment , 3 Constitutional Independence , 4 List of Attorneys General , 5 References , 6 See also , 7 External links , . 
Mission [ edit ] 
The Office of the Prosecutor General is entrusted with:
prosecution in court on behalf of the State;, representation of the interests of a citizen or of the State in court in cases determined by law;, supervision of the observance of laws by bodies that conduct detective and search activity, inquiry and pre-trial investigation;, supervision of the observance of laws in the execution of judicial decisions in criminal cases, and also in the application of other measures of coercion related to the restraint of personal liberty of citizens., Appointment [ edit ] 
The Prosecutor General is nominated to the office by the President of Russia and appointed by the majority of Federation Council of Russia (the Upper House of the Russian Parliament). If the nomination falls the President must nominate another candidate within the 30 days (article 12 of the Federal Law about the Office of the Prosecutor General of Russian Federation [1]). The term of authority of the Prosecutor General is five years. The resignation of the Prosecutor General before the end of his term should be approved by both the majority of Federation Council of Russia and the President.
Constitutional Independence [ edit ] 
The Prosecutor General and his office are independent from the Executive, Legislative and Judicial branches of power. The Investigative Committee of Russia, sometimes described as the "Russian FBI", is the main federal investigating authority in Russia, formed in place of the Investigative Committee of the Prosecutor General in 2011.
List of Attorneys General [ edit ] 
Denotes service as acting Attorneys General prior to appointment or after resignation 
# Picture Name State of Residence Term of Office President(s) served under 1, Valentin Stepankov, Moscow, 28 February 1991, 5 October 1993, Boris Yeltsin, 2, Aleksey Kazannik, Moscow, 5 October 1993, 14 March 1994, Boris Yeltsin, 3, Aleksey Ilyushenko, Moscow, 26 March 1994, 24 October 1995, Boris Yeltsin, 4, Yury Skuratov, Moscow, 24 October 1995, 2 February 1999, Boris Yeltsin, 5, Vladimir Ustinov, Moscow, 17 May 2000, 2 June 2006, Vladimir Putin, 6, Yury Chaika, Moscow, 23 June 2006, Incumbent, Vladimir Putin
Dmitry Medvedev, Offices similar to Prosecutor General of Russia have existed in the Soviet Union (Prosecutor General of the USSR) and in the Russian Empire since January 12, 1722 (General Prosecutor of the Senate, DDDDNDD-DNDDNNDN DDDDND).
References [ edit ] 
^ Terrill 2009, p.433. , Terrill, Richard J. (2009). World Criminal Justice Systems: A Survey (7 ed.). Elsevier. ISBN978-1-59345-612-2. , . 
See also [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Commons:RIA_Novosti/Prosecutors ., Prosecutor General of the USSR, Ministry of Justice of the USSR, List of Justice Ministers of Imperial Russia, List of Prosecutors General of Russia, Federal Penitentiary Service, Crime in Russia, Prosecution Service of Russia class rate insignia, . 
External links [ edit ] 
Site of The Office of the Prosecutor General, List of Prosecutors Generals of Imperial Russia, Soviet Union and Russian Federation, . 
v , t , e , . Law enforcement in Russia , Investigative Committee, Ministry of Internal Affairs Police, Traffic Police Dept., Internal Troops, OMON, . , Federal Protective Service Presidential Security Service, . , Federal Security Service, Federal Drug Control Service, Border Guard Service, Federal Migration Service, Federal Service for Alcohol Market Regulation, Federal Penitentiary Service, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Prosecutor_General_of_Russia and oldid=625377637" Categories: Government of Russia, Law enforcement in Russia, Russian law, Prosecution, . Hidden categories: Articles with Russian-language external links, Articles containing Russian-language text, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
, DNNNDDD, DNDNDD / srpski, . Edit links This page was last modified on 13 September 2014 at 14:27.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
