
Public holidays in Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Public holidays in Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search See also: Public holidays in the Soviet Union 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (March 2013) , Part of a series on the, Culture of Russia , History People Languages Traditions Mythology and folklore Mythology, Folklore, . , Cuisine Festivals Public holidays , . , Religion Art Architecture, . , Literature Music and performing arts Music, . , Media Television, Cinema, . , Sport Monuments World Heritage Sites, . , Symbols Flag, Coat of arms, Cultural icons, . , Russia portal, . , v , t , e , . , The following is the list of official public holidays recognized by the Government of Russia . On these days, government offices, embassies and some shops, are closed. If the date of observance falls on a weekend, the following Monday will be a day off in lieu of the holiday.
Contents
1 Official holidays 1.1 New Year holiday , 1.2 Christmas day , 1.3 Defender of the Fatherland Day , 1.4 International Women's Day , 1.5 National Flag Day , 1.6 Spring and Labour Day , 1.7 Victory Day , 1.8 Russia Day , 1.9 Unity Day , . , 2 Regional public holidays 2.1 Muslim regions , . , 3 List of holidays and commemorative days , 4 Popular holidays which are not public holidays , 5 See also , 6 References , 7 External links , . 
Official holidays [ edit ] 
New Year holiday [ edit ] 
In addition to New Year's Day (DDDND DDD Novy god ) on 1 January, 2a5 January are public holidays as well, [ 1 ] [ 2 ] called New Year holiday (DDDDDDDDDD DDDDDNDN Novogodniye kanikuly ). The holiday includes January 6 and 8, with Christmas being January 7, declared as non-working days by law. Until 2005, only 1 and 2 January were public holidays. [ 3 ] 
Christmas day [ edit ] 
Main article: Christmas in Russia Further information: Christmas worldwide 
Christmas in Russia (DDDDDNNDD DNDNNDDD Rozhdestvo Khristovo ) is observed, on 7 January, as a public holiday according to the Julian calendar used by the Russian Orthodox Church. The public holiday was re-established in 1991, following the decades of suppression of religion and state atheism of the Soviet Union. Christmas on 25 December is celebrated in Russia by the Roman Catholic and various Protestant churches, but is not a public holiday.
Defender of the Fatherland Day [ edit ] 
The Defender of the Fatherland Day (DDDN DDNDNDDDD DNDNDNNDD Den zashchitnika Otechestva ) is celebrated on 23 February, and is a day of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation. The holiday was established in 1918. This event is held on October 11th.
International Women's Day [ edit ] 
On the eve of World War I campaigning for peace, Russian women observed their first International Women's Day on the last Sunday in February 1913. In 1913 following discussions, International Women's Day was transferred to 8 March and this day has remained the global date for International Women's Day ever since.
National Flag Day [ edit ] 
The National Flag Day is an official holiday in Russia, established in 1994. It is celebrated on 22 August, the day of the victory over putschists in 1991, but it is not a day-off.
Spring and Labour Day [ edit ] 
Further information: International Workers' Day A Russia 
In the former Soviet Union, 1 May was International Workers' Day and was celebrated with huge parades in cities like Moscow. Though the celebrations are low-key nowadays, several groups march on that day to protest grievances the workers have.
Victory Day [ edit ] 
May 9, Russia celebrates the victory over Nazi Germany, while remembering those who died in order to achieve it. On 9 May 1945 (by Moscow time) the German military surrendered to the Soviet Union and the Allies of World War II in Berlin (Karlshorst). A military parade is held in Moscow to celebrate the day. Victory Day (DDDN DDDDDN Den Pobedy ) is by far one of the biggest Russian holidays. It commemorates those who died in WWII and pays tribute to survivors and veterans. Flowers and wreaths are laid on wartime graves and special parties and concerts are organized for veterans. In the evening there is a firework display. A huge military parade, hosted by the President of the Russian Federation, is annually organized in Moscow on Red Square. Similar parades are organized in all major Russian cities
Russia Day [ edit ] 
Russia Day (DDDN DDNNDD Den Rossii ) is the national day, celebrated on June 12. On this day, in 1990, Russian parliament formally declared Russian sovereignty from the USSR (unlike all other ex-Soviet republics) which declared complete state independence , [ 4 ] Russian independence was less radical, and coexistence of Russian and USSR state power had a place until the end of 1991 [ citation needed ] ). The holiday was officially established in 1992. Initially it was named Day of the Adoption of the Declaration of Sovereignty of the Russian Federation , on 1 February 2002 it was officially renamed to Russia Day (in 1998 Boris Yeltsin offered this name socially). There exists a misconception in Russian society, that this holiday is also called Russia's Independence Day, but it never had such a name in official documents. According to the survey of Levada Center in May 2009, 44f the respondents named the holiday as Independence Day of Russia.
Unity Day [ edit ] 
Unity Day (DDDN DDNDDDDDD DDDDNNDD Den narodnogo edinstva ) was first celebrated on November 4, 2005, commemorates the popular uprising led by Kuzma Minin and Dmitry Pozharsky which ejected the Polish invaders from Moscow in November 1612, and more generally the end of the Time of Troubles and foreign intervention in Russia. The event was marked by a public holiday which was held in Russia on October 22 (Old Style) from 1649 till 1917. Its name alludes to the idea that all the classes of Russian society willingly united to preserve Russian statehood when its demise seemed inevitable, even though there was neither Tsar nor Patriarch to guide them. Most observers view this as an attempted replacement to counter Communist demonstrations on November 7 holiday, which marked the anniversary of the October Revolution. National Unity Day is also known as Consolidation Day (as an alternative translation), which people in Russia celebrate on November 3 - November 4.
Regional public holidays [ edit ] 
Muslim regions [ edit ] 
Kurban Bayram (Eid al-Adha), Uraza Bayram (Eid ul-Fitr), . 
List of holidays and commemorative days [ edit ] 
Date English name Local name Remarks January 25, Tatiana Day, DDNNNDDD DDDN 
, April 21, Local Self-Government Day [ 5 ] , DDDN DDNNDDDD NDDDNDNDDDDDDN 
, April 26, Memorial Day of Radiation Accidents and Catastrophes, DDDN DDDNND DDDDDNDN D NDDDDNDDDDNN DDDNDNN D DDNDNNNDNDN 
, Anniversary of the 1986 Chernobyl disaster, April 27, Day of Russian Parliamentarism [ 6 ] , DDDN NDNNDDNDDDD DDNDDDDDNDNDDDD 
, commemorates the first session of Russiaas first-ever State Duma in 1906, June 6, Day of the Russian Language [ 7 ] , DDDN NNNNDDDD NDNDD 
, Prior to 2011, Pushkin Day honoring Alexander Puskhin, now honors the Russian Language, June 8, Social Workers' Day, DDDN NDNDDDNDDDD NDDDNDDDD , Enacted in 2000, June 12, Russia Day, DDDN DDNNDD , Declaration of Sovereignty of the Russian Federation from the USSR, Last Sunday of July, Navy Day, DDDN DDDDDD-DDNNDDDD DDDND , Honoring the active and reserve personnel, heroes and veterans of the Russian Navy, August 12, Russian Air Force Day, DDDN DDDDDD-DDDDNNDNN NDD , Honoring the active and reserve personnel, heroes and veterans of the Russian Air Force, September 29, Day of Machine-Building industry workers, DDDN DDNDDDNNNDDNDDDD , -, October 23, Day of Advertisement industry Workers, DDDN NDDDNDDDDD NDDDDDN , professional holiday, enacted in 1994, October 24, Day of Special Forces of the Armed Forces, DDDN DDDNDDDDDDDDD NDDNDDDNDDDD DDDDDNDDDN , Memorial, enacted in 2006, honoring the 1950 raising of the first Spetsnaz companies, October 25, Day of Customs Workers, DDDN NDDDDDDDDDD , Enacted in 1995, October 29, Day of Security services of the MVD, DDDN DDDDDDDDNNDDDDDD DNNDDN , Enacted in 1952 by government decree, October 30, Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Political Repressions, DDDN DDDNND DDNND DDDDNDNDNDDN NDDNDNNDD , Enacted in 1991, honors the victims of the Imperial and Soviet era political repressions, October 31, Day of the detention centers and prisons workers, DDDN NDDDNDDDDD DDDD D NNNDD , Enacted in 2006, November 19, Day of the missile forces and artillery, DDDN NDDDNDNN DDDND D DNNDDDDNDD , Enacted on 21st of October 1944, to commemorate the artillery at the Battle of Stalingrad of 19th of November 1942, December 17, Day of the strategic missile forces, DDDN DDDDNDNN DDDND NNNDNDDDNDNDDDD DDDDDNDDDN , Enacted in 1995 to commemorate the establishing of strategic missile forces on 17th of December 1959, Popular holidays which are not public holidays [ edit ] 
New Year according to Julian Calendar on January 14, Tatiana Day (student's day) on January 25, Valentine's Day on February 14, Maslenitsa (a week before the Great Lent) Start date changes every year, depending on the beginning of the Great Lent, Internal Troops of Russia Day on March 27, EasterIn each year is calculated on a lunisolar calendar, Cosmonautics Day on April 12, Radio Day on May 7, Border Guards Day on May 28, celebrating the anniversary of the Border Guard Service of Russia, Ivan Kupala Day on July 7, Paratroopers Day on August 2, Savior of the Apple Feast Day on August 19, October Revolution Day on November 7, . 
See also [ edit ] 
Public holidays in the Soviet Union, Days of Military Honour, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ Russia takes an extended New Year holiday - Europe - International Herald Tribune . By Steven Lee Myers. Published: Friday, January 5, 2007 , ^ Article 112, Public holidays - Labor Code of the Russian Federation. (Russian) Retrieved on June 6, 2013 , ^ Article 112. Non-working holidays (English version). International Labour Organization. Retrieved on June 6, 2013 , ^ Russia's New Politics: The Management of a Postcommunist Society by Stephen White, Cambridge University Press, 1999, ISBN 0521587379 (page 240)
Citizens in the Making in Post-Soviet States by Olena Nikolayenko, Routledge, 2001, ISBN 0415596041 (page 101) , ^ DDDD DNDDDDDDND DD DN 10.06.2012 N 805 "D DDD DDDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDDDDDD" , ^ "RF State Duma to vote establishment of Day of Russian Parliamentarism on Friday". Itar Tass . Retrieved 22 April 2013 . , ^ "Russian State Duma calls for efforts to popularize Russian language abroad". Itar Tass . Retrieved 6 May 2013 . , External links [ edit ] 
Russian national holidays, Russian holidays traditions to send gifts and flowers to Russia, Official days off for public holidays (updated yearly), Public holidays in Russia, Public Holidays and Bank Holidays for Russia, Holidays and Observances in Russia, Consulate General of the Russian Federation in Houston., . 
v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays , Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Public holidays in Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia , Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . Public holidays in Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , v , t , e , . Public holidays in Russia , New Year's Day / New Year, Christmas, Defender of the Fatherland Day, International Women's Day, International Workers' Day, Victory Day, Russia Day, Unity Day, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Public_holidays_in_Russia and oldid=632114207" Categories: Public holidays in Russia, Public holidays by country, Observances in Russia, . Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from March 2013, All articles needing additional references, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from June 2011, Articles containing Russian-language text, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, DODDNDD, Deutsch, FranAais, PortuguAs, DNNNDDD, DDND NNDD, Suomi, Svenska, aaa, . Edit links This page was last modified on 2 November 2014 at 08:12.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
