
Renting - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Renting 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search This article is about an agreement for payment for temporary use. For other uses, see Rent (disambiguation). "Rentals" redirects here. For the rock band, see The Rentals. "Renter" redirects here. For the Estonian economist and chess player, see Raul Renter. 
Renting , also known as hiring , is an agreement where a payment is made for the temporary use of a good, service or property owned by another. A gross lease is when the tenant pays a flat rental amount and the landlord pays for all property charges regularly incurred by the ownership.
Contents
1 Reasons for renting , 2 Growth of rental industry 2.1 Rental investment , . , 3 Rental agreements , 4 Leasing , 5 Rent to own , 6 References , 7 External links , . 
Reasons for renting [ edit ] 
There are many possible reasons for renting instead of buying, for example:
In many jurisdictions (including India, Spain, Australia, United Kingdom and the United States) rent used in a trade or business is tax deductible, whereas rent on a dwelling is not tax deductible in most jurisdictions., Financial inadequacy, such as renting a house when one is unable to buy it. One may not wish to pay the full price that ownership would need, allowing for smaller payments over a specified period of time., Reducing financial risk due to depreciation and transaction costs, especially for real estate which might be needed only for a short amount of time., When something is needed only temporarily, as in the case of a special tool, a truck or a skip., When something is needed that may or may not be already owned but is not in proximity for use, such as renting an automobile or bicycle when away on a trip., Needing a cheaper alternative to buying, such as renting a movie: a person is unwilling to pay the full price for a movie, so they rent it for a lesser price, but give up the chance to view it again later., The tenant may want to leave the burden of upkeep of the property (mowing the lawn, shoveling snow, etc.) to the owner or his agents., There is no need to worry about lifespan and maintenance., Renting keeps off-balance-sheet the debt that would burden the balance sheet of a company in case the property would have been bought., Renting can be better for the environment if products are used more efficiently by sharing rather than being disposed of or overproduced. [ 1 ] , . 
Growth of rental industry [ edit ] 
Short-term rental of all sorts of products (excluding real estate and holiday apartments) already represents an estimated a108 billion ($160 billion) annual market in Europe and is expected to grow further as the internet makes it easier to find specific items available for rent. [ 2 ] According to a poll by YouGov, 76f people looking to rent would go to the internet first to find what they need; rising to 88or those aged 25a34. [ 3 ] 
It has been widely reported that the financial crisis of 2007a2010 may have contributed to the rapid growth of online rental marketplaces, such as erento, as consumers are more likely to consider renting instead of buying in times of financial hardship. [ 4 ] Environmental concerns, fast depreciation of goods, and a more transient workforce also mean that consumers are increasingly searching for rentals online. [ 2 ] 
A 2010 U.S. survey found 27f renters plan to never buy a home. [ 5 ] 
Rental investment [ edit ] 
Net income received, or losses suffered, by an investor from renting of one or two properties is subject to idiosyncratic risk due to the numerous things that can happen to real property and variable behavior of tenants. [ 6 ] 
Rental agreements [ edit ] 
There is typically an implied, explicit, or written rental agreement or contract involved to specify the terms of the rental, which are regulated and managed under contract law.
Examples include letting out real estate (real property) for the purpose of housing tenure (where the tenant rents a residence to live in), parking space for a vehicle(s), storage space, whole or portions of properties for business, agricultural, institutional, or government use, or other reasons.
When renting real estate, the person(s) or party who lives in or occupies the real estate is often called a tenant, paying rent to the owner of the property, often called a landlord (or landlady). The real estate rented may be all or part of almost any real estate, such as an apartment, house, building, business office(s) or suite, land, farm, or merely an inside or outside space to park a vehicle, or store things all under Real estate law.
The tenancy agreement for real estate is often called a lease , and usually involves specific property rights in real property, as opposed to chattels.
In India, the rental income on property is taxed under the head "income from house property". A deduction of 30s allowed from total rent which is charged to tax.
The time use of a chattel or other so called "personal property" is covered under general contract law, but the term lease also nowadays extends to long term rental contracts of more expensive non-Real properties such as automobiles, boats, planes, office equipment and so forth. The distinction in that case is long term versus short term rentals. Some non-real properties commonly available for rent or lease are:
motion pictures on VHS or DVD, of audio CDs, of computer programs on CD-ROM., transport equipment, such as an automobile or a bicycle., ships and boats, in which case rental is known as chartering, and the rent is known as hire or freight (depending on the type of charter), aircraft, in which case rental is known as chartering, or leasing if the rental is longer term, specialized tools, such as a chainsaw, laptop, IT equipment or something more substantial, such as a forklift., large equipment such as cranes, oil rigs and submarines., a deckchair or beach chair and umbrella., furniture, designer handbags, jewelry, [ 7 ] sunglasses and watches., electrical items such as washing machines [ 7 ] , . 
In various degrees, renting can involve buying services for various amounts of time, such as staying in a hotel, using a computer in an Internet cafe, or riding in a taxicab (some forms of English use the term "hiring" for this activity).
As seen from the examples, some rented goods are used on the spot, but usually they are taken along; to help guarantee that they are brought back, one or more of the following applies:
one shows an identity document, one signs a contract; any damage already present when renting may be noted down to avoid that the renter is blamed for it when the good is returned, one pays a damage deposit (a refundable fee that may be used in part to pay for damage caused by the renter), . 
If the customer has a credit account with the rental company, they may rent over several months (or years) and will receive a recurring or continuation invoice each rental period until they return the equipment. In this case deposits are rarely required.
In certain types of rental (sometimes known as operated or wet rental) the charge may be calculated by the rental charge + timesheets of operators or drivers supplied by the rental company to operate the equipment. This is particularly relevant for crane rental companies.
Sometimes the risk that the good is kept is reduced by it being a special model or having signs on it that cannot easily be removed, making it obvious that it is owned by the rental company; this is especially effective for goods used in public places, but even when used at home it may help due to social control.
Persons and businesses that regularly rent goods from a particular company generally have an account with that company, which reduces the administrative procedure (transaction costs) on each occasion.
Signing out books from a library could be considered renting when there is a fee per book. However the term lending is more common.
Leasing [ edit ] 
Main article: Leasing 
Long term rental of personal property (for periods longer than a year) is known as leasing. Leasing is usually used for high-value capital equipment, both in business and by consumers (particularly for cars). A leasing agreement which transfers most of the risks and rewards of ownership, usually for the life of the asset, is known as a finance lease. A leasing agreement which is not a finance lease is known as an operating lease.
Rent to own [ edit ] 
A rental agreement may provide for the renter or lessee to become the owner of the asset at the end of the rental period, usually at the renter's option on payment of a nominal fee. Such arrangements may be known as
rent-to-own, a term used in the United States for rental of furniture or appliances. The term is also used in the U.S. for real estate transactions, where the tenant has an option to purchase the property at a fixed price at a specified future time. Such arrangements are also known as lease-option, lease-to-own or lease to purchase option., hire purchase, used in the United Kingdom and other countries for the purchase of cars, other consumer equipment and business equipment. The term lease-purchase is also used., closed-end leasing, used in the U.S. and Canada for the leasing of cars. Unlike in hire purchase, the asset is sold at its residual value at the end of the term, rather than for a nominal amount., . 
References [ edit ] 
^ "Why buy it when you can rent it?", The Observer , 2004-06-27. Retrieved on 2009-09-09. , ^ a b Schenker, Jennifer. "Tough Times? Rent, Don't Buy, with Erento", BusinessWeek , 2008-08-22. Retrieved on 2009-10-01. , ^ Pollok, Murray. News Highlights , International Rental News , 2009-04-01. Retrieved on 2009-09-01. , ^ Moshiri, Maryam. "Is renting the new buying?", BBC Breakfast News , 2009-04-27. Retrieved on 2009-05-01. , ^ Boston Metro , 19 Aug 2010, p 6. Citing survey by Trulia.com. , ^ Tara Siegel Barnard (March 29, 2013). "Rental Investment May Seem Safer Than It Really Is". The New York Times . Retrieved March 30, 2013 . , ^ a b "If you want it, rent it ... from a 'must have' handbag to an Aston Martin", The Observer , 2009-01-04. Retrieved on 2009-09-09. , External links [ edit ] 
, Look up rent in Wiktionary, the free dictionary., Wikimedia Commons has media related to Renting ., Rent vs Buy (homes) NY Times, . 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2007) , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Renting and oldid=631593027" Categories: Property, Renting, . Hidden categories: Commons category template with no category set, Commons category with page title same as on Wikidata, Articles needing additional references from June 2007, All articles needing additional references, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
Afrikaans, AzErbaycanca, BAn-lAm-gA, CatalA, Cymraeg, Dansk, Deutsch, IIIIIIII, EspaAol, Euskara, UOOOU, FranAais, iei, Ido, Bahasa Indonesia, Italiano, ODDDOND, LietuviA, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, DDND NNDD, Sicilianu, Simple English, Suomi, Svenska, aaaaa, DDNDNDNNDD, O, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 29 October 2014 at 10:14.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
