
Rus' Khaganate - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Rus' Khaganate 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Rus' Khaganate, 9th century , a 
, Map showing Varangian or Rus' settlement (in red) and location of Slavic tribes (in grey), during the mid-ninth century. Khazar influence indicated with blue outline. , Capital , Not specified , Languages , Old East Norse, Old East Slavic, Religion , Norse religion, Slavic religion, Government , Monarchy, Historical era , Early Middle Ages, -, Established, ca. 830 [ 2 ] , -, Disestablished, ca. 882-899 [ 1 ] , Today part of , Russia 
Ukraine
, Part of a series on the History of Ukraine , Prehistory TrypillianaCucuteni culture, Yamna culture, Catacomb culture, Cimmeria, Taurica, Scythia, Bosporan Kingdom, Sarmatia, Zarubintsy culture, Chernyakhov culture, Hunnic Empire, . , Early history Early East Slavs, Onoghuria, White Croatia, Rus' Khaganate , Khazars, Kievan Rus', GaliciaaVolhynia, Cumania, Mongol invasion of Rus', Golden Horde, Principality of Moldavia, Grand Duchy of Lithuania, Crimean Khanate, . , Early modern history Cossacks, PolishaLithuanian Commonwealth, Zaporozhian Host, Khmelnytsky Uprising, The Ruin, Cossack Hetmanate, Left bank, Sloboda Ukraine, Right bank, Danube, Russian Empire, Little Russia, New Russia, Habsburg Monarchy, Kingdom of Galicia, Bukovina, Carpathian Ruthenia, . , Modern history Ukraine during World War I, Ukraine after the Revolution, Ukrainian Civil War, Ukrainian People's Republic, West Ukrainian People's Republic, Ukrainian State, Directorate of Ukraine, Ukrainian SSR, Communist Party of Ukraine, Holodomor, Ukraine in World War II, Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists, Chernobyl, Cassette Scandal, Orange Revolution, RussiaaUkraine gas disputes, Euromaidan, Russian military intervention, . , Topics by history Name of Ukraine, Historical regions, Christianity in Ukraine, . , Ukraine portal, v , t , e , . , Part of a series on the History of Russia , Early Slavs/ Rus', pre-9th century , Volga Bulgaria, 7tha13th century , Khazar Khaganate, 7tha10th century , Rus' Khaganate , 9th century , Kievan Rus', 9tha12th century , Vladimir-Suzdal, 12tha14th century , Novgorod Republic, 12tha15th century , Tatar Yoke, 13tha15th century , Grand Duchy, 1283a1547, Tsardom of Russia, 1547a1721, Russian Empire, 1721a1917, Russian Republic, 1917, Russian SFSR/ Soviet Union, 1917a1991, Russian Federation, 1992a present , Timeline , Russia portal, v , t , e , . , The Rus' Khaganate is the name applied by some modern historians to a polity that was postulated to exist during a poorly documented period in the history of Eastern Europe, roughly the late 8th and early-to-mid-9th centuries AD. [ 4 ] 
It was suggested that the Rus' Khaganate was a state, or a cluster of city-states, set up by a people called Rus' , who may have been Norsemen, somewhere in what is today European Russia, as a chronological predecessor to the Rurik Dynasty and the Kievan Rus'. The region's population at that time was composed of Baltic, Slavic, Finnic, Turkic, Hungarian, and Norse peoples. The region was also a place of operations for Varangians, eastern Scandinavian adventurers, merchants, and pirates. [ 5 ] [ 6 ] 
While there have been several theories, the prevailing opinion today (as of 2013) is that the population centers of the region may have included the proto-towns of Holmgard, Aldeigja, Lyubsha, Alaborg, Sarskoye Gorodishche, and Timerevo.
According to sparse contemporaneous sources, the leader or leaders of Rus people at this time were using the Old Turkic title Khagan, hence the suggested name of their organization. [ 7 ] 
This period is thought to be the times of the genesis of a distinct Rus' ethnos, which gave rise to Kievan Rus' and later states from which modern Russia, Belarus, and Ukraine evolved. [ 5 ] [ 6 ] 
Contents
1 Documentary evidence , 2 Dating , 3 Location , 4 Origin , 5 Government , 6 Customs and religion , 7 Relations with neighbors , 8 Decline and legacy , 9 See also , 10 References , 11 External links , 12 Notes , . 
Documentary evidence [ edit ] 
The title of "khagan" for a leader of some groups of Rus' people is mentioned in several historical sources, most of them foreign texts dating from the 9th century, while three East Slavic sources date from the 11th and 12th centuries. The earliest European reference related to the Rus' people ruled by a khagan comes from the Frankish Annals of St. Bertin , which refer to a group of Norsemen who called themselves Rhos ( qui se, id est gentem suam, Rhos vocari dicebant ) and visited Constantinople around the year 838. [ 8 ] Fearful of returning home via the steppes, which would leave them vulnerable to attacks by the Magyars, these Rhos travelled through the Frankish Empire accompanied by Greek ambassadors from the Byzantine emperor Theophilus. When questioned by the Frankish Emperor Louis the Pious at Ingelheim, they stated that their leader was known as chacanus (hypothesized to be either the Latin word for "Khagan" or a deformation of Scandinavian proper name HAkan ), [ 9 ] that they lived far to the north, and that they were Swedes ( comperit eos gentis esse sueonum ). [ 10 ] 
Thirty years later, in spring 871, the eastern and western emperors, Basil I and Louis II, quarreled over control of Bari, which had been conquered from the Arabs by their joint forces. The Byzantine emperor sent an angry letter to his western counterpart, reprimanding him for usurping the title of emperor. He argued that the Frankish rulers are simple reges , while the imperial title properly applied only to the overlord of the Romans, that is, to Basil himself. He also pointed out that each nation has its own title for the supreme ruler: for instance, the title of chaganus is used by the overlords of the Avars, Khazars ( Gazari ), and "Northmen" ( Nortmanno ). To that, Louis replied that he was aware only of the Avar khagans, and had never heard of the khagans of the Khazars and Normans. [ 11 ] [ 12 ] The content of Basil's letter, now lost, is reconstructed from Louis's reply, quoted in full in the Salerno Chronicle , and it indicates that at least one group of Scandinavians had a ruler who called himself "khagan". [ 13 ] 
Ahmad ibn Rustah, a 10th-century Muslim geographer from Persia, wrote that the Rus' khagan ("khAqAn rus") lived on an island in a lake. [ 14 ] Constantine Zuckerman comments that Ibn Rustah, using the text of an anonymous account from the 870s, attempted to accurately convey the titles of all rulers described by its author, which makes his evidence all the more precious. [ 15 ] Ibn Rustah mentions only two khagans in his treatise a those of Khazaria and Rus.
A further near-contemporary reference to the Rus' comes from al-Yaqubi, who wrote in 889 or 890 that the Caucasus mountaineers, when besieged by the Arabs in 854, asked for help from the overlords ( sahib ) of al-Rum (Byzantium), Khazaria, and al-Saqaliba (Slavs). [ 16 ] According to Zuckerman, Ibn Khordadbeh and other Arab authors often confused the terms Rus and Saqaliba when describing their raids to the Caspian Sea in the 9th and 10th centuries. But n.b. , Ibn KhordAdbeh's Book of Roads and Kingdoms does not mention the title of Khagan for the ruler of Rus'. [ 17 ] 
Hudud al-Alam , an anonymous Persian geography text written in the late 10th century, refers to the Rus' king as "KhAqAn-i Rus". [ 18 ] As the unknown author of Hudud al-Alam relied on numerous 9th-century sources, including Ibn KhordAdbeh, it is possible that his reference to the Rus' Khagan was copied from earlier, pre-Rurikid texts, rather than reflecting contemporary political reality. [ 19 ] 
Finally, the 11th century Persian geographer Abu Said Gardizi mentioned "khAqAn-i rus" in his work Zayn al-AkhbAr . Like other Muslim geographers, Gardizi relied on traditions stemming from the 9th century. [ 20 ] 
Dating [ edit ] 
The KAlvesten runestone dates to the 9th century, the oldest known runestone telling of expeditions in the East. 
Extant primary sources make it plausible that the title of khagan was applied to the rulers of the Rus' during a rather short period, roughly between their embassy to Constantinople (838) and Basil I's letter (871). All Byzantine sources after Basil I refer to the Rus' rulers as archons (Greek for "ruler").
The dating of the Khaganate's existence has been the subject of debates among scholars and remains unclear. Paul Robert Magocsi and Omeljan Pritsak date the foundation of the Khaganate to be around the year 830. [ 2 ] [ 21 ] According to Magocsi, "A violent civil war took place during the 820s with "The losers of the internal political struggle, known as Kabars, fled northward to the Varangian Rus' in the upper Volga region, near Rostov, and southward to the Magyars, who formerly had been loyal vassals of the Khazars. The presence of Kabar political refugees from Khazaria among the Varangian traders in Rostov helped to raise the latter's prestige, with the consequence that by the 830s a new power center known as the Rus' Kaganate had come into existence." [ 2 ] Whatever the accuracy of such estimates may be, there are no primary sources mentioning the Rus' or its khagans prior to the 830s. [ 22 ] 
Equally contentious has been discussion about the date of the khaganate's disintegration. The title of Khagan is not mentioned in the Rus'-Byzantine treaties (907, 911, 944), or in De Ceremoniis , a record of court ceremonials meticulously documenting the titles of foreign rulers, when it deals with Olga's reception at the court of Constantine VII in 945. Moreover, ibn Fadlan, in his detailed account of the Rus (922), designated their supreme ruler as malik ("king"). From this fact, Peter Golden concluded via an argumentum ex silentio that the khaganate collapsed at some point between 871 and 922. [ 23 ] Zuckerman, meanwhile, argues that the absence of the title "khagan" from the first Russo-Byzantine Treaty proves that the khaganate had vanished by 911. [ 15 ] 
Location [ edit ] 
Europe in the early 9th century 
The location of the khaganate has been actively disputed since the early 20th century. According to one fringe theory, the Rus' khagan resided somewhere in Scandinavia or even as far west as Walcheren. [ 24 ] In stark contrast, George Vernadsky believed that the khagan had his headquarters in the eastern part of the Crimea or in the Taman Peninsula and that the island described by Ibn Rustah was most likely situated in the estuary of the Kuban River. [ 25 ] Neither of these theories has won many adherents, as archaeologists have uncovered no traces of a Slavic-Norse settlement in the Crimea region in the 9th century and there are no Norse sources documenting "khagans" in Scandinavia. [ 26 ] 
Soviet historiography, as represented by Boris Rybakov and Lev Gumilev, advanced Kiev as the residence of the khagan, assuming that Askold and Dir were the only khagans recorded by name. Mikhail Artamonov became an adherent of the theory that Kiev was the seat of the Rus' Khaganate, and continued to hold this view into the 1990s. [ 27 ] Western historians, however, have generally argued against this theory. There is no evidence of a Norse presence in Kiev prior to the 10th century. [ 28 ] Troublesome is the absence of hoards of coins which would prove that the Dnieper trade route a the backbone of later Kievan Rus' a was operating in the 9th century. [ 29 ] Based on his examination of the archaeological evidence, Zuckerman concludes that Kiev originated as a fortress on the Khazar border with Levedia, and that only after the Magyars departed for the west in 889 did the middle Dnieper region start to progress economically. [ 30 ] 
A number of historians, the first of whom was Vasily Bartold, have advocated a more northerly position for the khaganate. They have tended to emphasize ibn Rustah's report as the only historical clue to the location of the khagan's residence. [ 31 ] Recent archaeological research, conducted by Anatoly Kirpichnikov and Dmitry Machinsky, has raised the possibility that this polity was based on a group of settlements along the Volkhov River, including Ladoga, Lyubsha, Duboviki, Alaborg, and Holmgard. [ 32 ] "Most of these were initially small sites, probably not much more than stations for re-fitting and resupply, providing an opportunity for exchange and the redistribution of items passing along the river and caravan routes". [ 33 ] If the anonymous traveller quoted by ibn Rustah is to be believed, the Rus of the Khaganate period made extensive use of the Volga route to trade with the Middle East, possibly through Bulgar and Khazar intermediaries. His description of the Rus' island suggests that their center was at Holmgard, an early medieval precursor of Novgorod whose name translates from Old Norse as "the river-island castle". The First Novgorod Chronicle describes unrest in Novgorod before Rurik was invited to come rule the region in the 860s. This account prompted Johannes BrAndsted to assert that Holmgard-Novgorod was the khaganate's capital for several decades prior to the appearance of Rurik, including the time of the Byzantine embassy in 839. [ 34 ] Machinsky accepts this theory but notes that, before the rise of Holmgard-Novgorod, the chief political and economic centre of the area was located at Aldeigja-Ladoga. [ 35 ] 
Origin [ edit ] 
Main article: Rus' people 
The origins of the Rus' Khaganate are unclear. The first Norse settlers of the region arrived in the lower basin of the Volkhov River in the mid-8th century. The country comprising the present-day Saint-Petersburg, Novgorod, Tver, Yaroslavl, and Smolensk regions became known in Old Norse sources as "GarAarAki", the land of forts. Around the 860 Rus', a group of Vikings perhaps from Roden, Sweden, began to rule the area under their leader Rurik. [ 36 ] [ 37 ] [ 38 ] Gradually, Norse warlords, known to the Turkic-speaking steppe peoples as "kAl-beki" or "lake-princes", came to dominate some of the region's Finno-Ugric and Slavic peoples, particularly along the Volga trade route linking the Baltic Sea with the Caspian Sea and Serkland. [ 39 ] 
Omeljan Pritsak speculated that a Khazar khagan named Khan-Tuvan Dyggvi, exiled after losing a civil war, settled with his followers in the Norse-Slavic settlement of Rostov, married into the local Scandinavian nobility, and fathered the dynasty of the Rus' khagans. [ 40 ] Zuckerman dismisses Pritsak's theory as untenable speculation, [ 41 ] and no record of any Khazar khagan fleeing to find refuge among the Rus' exists in contemporaneous sources. [ 42 ] Nevertheless, the possible Khazar connection to early Rus' monarchs is supported by the use of a stylized trident tamga, or seal, by later Rus' rulers such as Sviatoslav I of Kiev; similar tamgas are found in ruins that are definitively Khazar in origin. [ 43 ] The genealogical connection between the 9th century Khagans of Rus' and the later Rurikid rulers, if any, is unknown at this time. [ 44 ] 
Most historians agree that the title "khagan" was borrowed by the Rus from the Khazars, but there is considerable dispute over the circumstances of this borrowing. Peter Benjamin Golden presumes that the Rus' khaganate was a puppet state set up by the Khazars in the basin of the Oka River to fend off recurring attacks of the Magyars. [ 45 ] However, no source records that the Rus' of the 9th century were subjects of the Khazars. For foreign observers (such as Ibn Rustah), there was no material difference between the titles of the Khazar and Rus' rulers. [ 46 ] Anatoly Novoseltsev hypothesizes that the adoption of the title "khagan" was designed to advertise the Rus' claims to the equality with the Khazars. [ 47 ] This theory is echoed by Thomas Noonan, who asserts that the Rus' leaders were loosely unified under the rule of one of the "sea-kings" in the early 9th century, and that this "High King" adopted the title "khagan" to give him legitimacy in the eyes of his subjects and neighboring states. [ 48 ] According to this theory, the title was a sign that the bearers ruled under a divine mandate. [ 49 ] 
Government [ edit ] 
Writing in 922, Ibn Fadlan described the Rus' ruler (like the Khazar khagan [ citation needed ] ), as having little real authority. Instead, political and military power was wielded by a deputy, who "commands the troops, attacks [the Rus' ruler's] enemies, and acts as his representative before his subjects." [ 50 ] The supreme king of the Rus', on the other hand, "has no duties other than to make love to his slave girls, drink, and give himself up to pleasure." [ 50 ] He was guarded by 400 men, "willing to die for him... These 400 sit below the royal throne: a large and bejewelled platform which also accommodates the forty slave-girls of his harem." Ibn Fadlan wrote that the Rus' ruler would almost never leave his throne and even "when he wants to go riding his horse is led up to him, and on his return the horse is brought right up to the throne." [ 51 ] Ibn Rustah, on the other hand, reported that the khagan was the ultimate authority in settling disputes between his subjects. His decisions, however, were not binding, so that if one of the disputants disagreed with the khagan's ruling, the dispute was then resolved in a battle, which took place "in the presence of the contestants' kin who stand with swords drawn; and the man who gets the better of the duel also gets the decision about the matter in dispute." [ 52 ] 
The dichotomy between the relative powerlessness of the nominal ruler and the great authority of his subordinate reflects the structure of Khazar government, with secular authority in the hands of a Khagan Bek only theoretically subordinate to the khagan, and it agrees with the traditional Germanic system, where there could be a division between the king and the military commander. Moreover, some scholars have noted similarities between this dual kingship and the postulated relationship between Igor and Oleg of Kiev in the early 10th century (compare Askold and Dir in the 9th century). [ 53 ] The institution of separate sacral ruler and military commander may be observed in the reconstructed relationship between Oleg and Igor, but whether this is part of the Rus' Khaganate's legacy to its successor-state is unknown. The early Kievan Rus' principalities exhibited certain distinctive characteristics in their government, military organization, and jurisprudence that were comparable to those in force among the Khazars and other steppe peoples; some historians believe that these elements came to Kievan Rus' from the Khazars by way of the earlier Rus' Khagans. [ 54 ] 
Customs and religion [ edit ] 
See also: Norse religion, Slavic mythology and Christianization of the Rus' Khaganate Oleg being mourned by his warriors , an 1899 painting by Viktor Vasnetsov. This burial rite, with the funerary tumulus, is typical of both Scandinavian, and Eurasian nomadic customs. 
Judging from excavations conducted since the 1820s at Ladoga and related sites in Northern Russia, the Rus' customs reflected primarily Scandinavian influences. This is consistent with the writings of ibn Rustah and ibn Fadlan. The former gives a brief description of the burial of a Rus' nobleman, who was put into a "grave like a large house", together with food, amulets, coins, other staples, as well as his favorite wife. "Then the grave door is sealed and she dies there." [ 55 ] Ibn Fadlan provides further evidence of the Rus' building a memorial mound, or cenotaph, and giving it a runic inscription on a piece of wood. [ 56 ] The Arab traveler also left a detailed description of the Rus' custom of cremating noblemen in a ship, which involved both animal and human sacrifice. When a poor man died, he was put into a little ship and burned in it; the funeral of a nobleman was much more elaborate. His estate was divided into three parts: one for his family, one to pay for his funerary costume, and one to make beer, which was consumed on the day of his cremation. [ 57 ] One of the deceased man's slave girls volunteered to be put to death so as to join her master in paradise. On the day of cremation, the dead man was disinterred from his grave, dressed in fine clothings, and put onto a specially constructed ship. The volunteer slave girl was killed (after the deceased man's kinsmen and friends had sex with her) and placed on board together with her master before the dead man's nearest kinsman set the vessel on fire. The funeral ended with the construction of a round mound. [ 58 ] 
Early medieval historians were impressed with the spirit of independence and enterprise inculcated among the Rus from birth. [ 20 ] Ibn Rustah writes: "When a son is born the father will go up to the newborn baby, sword in hand; throwing it down, he says; 'I shall not leave you any property: you have only what you can provide with this weapon!'" [ 59 ] Al-Marwazi repeated this description of the instructions given to a son and added that it was the daughter who received her father's inheritance. The same sense of rugged individualism was reflected in their treatment of the ill. According to ibn Fadlan, "if one of the Rus falls sick they put him in a tent by himself and leave bread and water for him. They do not visit him, however, or speak to him, especially if he is a serf. Should he recover he rejoins the others; if he dies they burn him. If he happens to be a serf, however, they leave him for the dogs and vultures to devour." [ 60 ] Sources describe the Rus as liberal in sexual matters. Ibn Fadlan wrote that the king of the Rus did not shy away from having public intercourse with the slave girls in his harem. When Rus traders arrived to the Volga shores, they would make love with the slave girls they brought for sale in the presence of their comrades; sometimes this would develop into a communal orgy. [ 61 ] Both ibn Fadlan and ibn Rustah portray the Rus as devout pagans. Ibn Rustah and, following him, Garizi reported that the Rus shamans or "medicine men" ( attiba ) wielded great power over the common folk. According to ibn Rustah, these shamans acted "as if they own everything". They determined what women, men, or animals had to be sacrificed, and there was no appealing their decisions. A shaman would take the selected offering, whether human or animal, and hang it from a pole until it died. [ 62 ] Ibn Fadlan left a description of the Rus merchants praying for success in trading before "a large wooden stake with a face like that of a human being, surrounded by smaller figures, and behind them tall poles in the ground." If trade did not pick up, more offerings were made; if the business remained slow, the trader would make offerings to the minor idols, too. When the trading was especially good, Rus merchants would likewise make additional offerings of cattle and sheep, some of which were distributed as alms. [ 63 ] 
On the other hand, Byzantine sources report that the Rus adopted Christianity by the end of the 860s. In his encyclical dated to 867, Patriarch Photius wrote about the enthusiastic conversion of the Rus, mentioning that he had sent to their lands a bishop. [ 64 ] Constantine VII attributes the conversion to his grandfather Basil the Macedonian and to Patriarch Ignatius rather than to their predecessors Michael III and Photius. Constantine narrates how the Byzantines galvanized the Rus' into conversion by their persuasive words and rich presents, including gold, silver, and precious fabrics. He also repeats a traditional story that the pagans were particularly impressed by a miracle: a gospel book thrown by the archbishop into an oven was not damaged by fire. [ 65 ] Ibn Khordadbeh wrote in the late 9th century that the Rus who arrived to Muslim lands "claimed to be Christians". [ 20 ] Modern historians are divided in their views on the historicity and extent of the Christianization of the Rus' Khaganate.
Relations with neighbors [ edit ] 
In 838, the Rus' Khaganate sent an embassy to the Byzantine Empire, which was recorded in the Annals of St. Bertin. The purpose of this embassy remains controversial among historians. Aleksey Shakhmatov argued that the embassy was meant to establish amity with Byzantium and to open up the way into Sweden through Western Europe. [ 66 ] Constantine Zuckerman postulates that the Rus' ambassadors were to negotiate a peace treaty after their Paphlagonian expedition of the 830s. [ 46 ] George Vernadsky connects their mission with the construction of the fortress of Sarkel in 833. That embassy was not recorded in Byzantine sources, and in 860 Patriarch Photius referred to the Rus as "unknown people". [ 67 ] 
According to Vernadsky, the Khazars and Greeks erected Sarkel near the portage between the Don River and Volga specifically to defend this strategic point from the Rus. [ 25 ] Other scholars, however, believe that the fortress of Sarkel was constructed to defend against or monitor the activities of the Magyars and other steppe tribes, and not the Rus'. [ 68 ] The Ukrainian historian Mykhailo Hrushevsky declared that the extant sources were unclear on this point. [ 69 ] John Skylitzes claimed that Sarkel was a "staunch bulwark against the Pechenegs" but did not identify that as its original purpose. [ 70 ] 
In 860, the Rus besieged Constantinople, with a fleet of 200 ships. The Byzantine army and navy were far from the capital, leaving it vulnerable to the attack. The timing of the expedition suggests that the Rus were well-aware of the internal situation in the empire thanks to the commercial and other relations that continued after the embassy of 838. The Rus warriors devastated the suburbs of Constantinople before suddenly departing on August 4. [ 71 ] 
The early Rus' traded extensively with Khazaria. Ibn Khordadbeh wrote in the Book of Roads and Kingdoms that "they go via the Slavic River (the Don) to Khamlidj, a city of the Khazars, where the latter's ruler collects the tithe from them." [ 72 ] Some modern commentators infer from Arab accounts that the Rus' Khaganate's political culture was profoundly influenced by its contacts with Khazaria. [ 73 ] By the beginning of the Rurikid period in the first decades of the 10th century, however, relations between the Rus' and the Khazars soured. [ citation needed ] 
Decline and legacy [ edit ] 
Soon after Patriarch Photius informed other Orthodox bishops about the Christianization of the Rus, all the centres of the khaganate in North-Western Russia were destroyed by fire. Archaeologists found convincing evidence that Holmgard, Aldeigja, Alaborg, Izborsk and other local centres were burnt to the ground in the 860s or 870s. Some of these settlements were permanently abandoned after the conflagration. The Primary Chronicle describes the uprising of the pagan Slavs and Chudes (Finnic peoples) against the Varangians, who had to withdraw overseas in 862. The First Novgorod Chronicle, whose account of the events Shakhmatov considered more trustworthy, does not pinpoint the pre-Rurikid uprising to any specific date. The 16th century Nikon Chronicle attributes the banishment of the Varangians from the country to Vadim the Bold. The Ukrainian historian Mykhailo Braichevsky labelled Vadim's rebellion "a pagan reaction" against the Christianization of the Rus'. [ 74 ] A period of unrest and anarchy followed, dated by Zuckerman to ca. 875a900. The absence of coin hoards from the 880s and 890s suggests that the Volga trade route ceased functioning, precipitating "the first silver crisis in Europe". [ 75 ] 
After this economic depression and period of political upheaval, the region experienced a resurgence beginning in around 900. Zuckerman associates this recovery with the arrival of Rurik and his men, who turned their attention from the Volga to the Dnieper, for reasons as yet uncertain. The Scandinavian settlements in Ladoga and Novgorod revived and started to grow rapidly. During the first decade of the 10th century, a large trade outpost was formed on the Dnieper in Gnezdovo, near modern Smolensk. Another Dnieper settlement, Kiev, developed into an important urban centre roughly in the same period. [ 76 ] [ 77 ] 
The fate of the Rus' Khaganate, and the process by which it either evolved into or was consumed by the Rurikid Kievan Rus', is unclear. The Kievans seem to have had a very vague notion about the existence of the khaganate. Slavonic sources do not mention either the Christianization of the Rus in the 860s nor the Paphlagonian expedition of the 830s. The account of the Rus' expedition against Constantinople in the 860s was borrowed by the authors of the Primary Chronicle from Greek sources, suggesting the absence of a vernacular written tradition. [ 78 ] 
See also [ edit ] 
, Ancient Germanic culture portal, Arsania, Caspian expeditions of the Rus', Rus'aByzantine War (disambiguation), GarAarAki, . 
References [ edit ] 
Ahmed ibn Fadlan. Ibn Fadlan's Journey to Russia: A Tenth-Century Traveler from Baghdad to the Volga River. Frye, Richard Nelson, ed. and trans. Princeton, NJ: Markus Wiener Publishers, 2005., Ahmad ibn Umar ibn Rustah. al-Alaq al-nafisah: Maruf bih Ibn Rustah. Tarjamah va taliq-i Husayn Qarah'chanlu. Tehran, Iran: Amir Kabir, 1986., DDDDNDDDNDD D.D. DNNNDD NNNNDD. [ The Rus' Island ]. St. Petersburg-Kishinev, 1997., Artamanov, M.I. "Prevye Stranisky Russkoy Istorii ve Archeologicheskom Osveshchenii." Sovietskaya Arkheologica . Vol 3, 1990. pp.271a290., Annales Bertiniani, a. 839 , (The Annals of St. Bertin). Ed. Georg Waitz, Monumenta Germaniae Historica, Scriptores rerum Germanicarum in usum scholarum. Hannoverae, 1883. pp.19a20., DNDDNDDNDDD D.D. DNDDNDDDDDD NNDNNDDDNNDD DD DNND [ Establishment of Christianity in Rus ]. Kiev: Naukova dumka, 1989., BrAndsted, Johannes. The Vikings . (transl. by Kalle Skov). Penguin Books, 1965., Brook, Kevin Alan. The Jews of Khazaria. 2d ed. Rowman and Littlefield, 2006., Brutzkus, Julius. "The Khazar Origin of Ancient Kiev." Slavonic and East European Review , 22 (1944)., Callmer J. The Archaeology of Kiev to the End of the Earliest Urban Phase. // Harvard Ukrainian Studies, 1987, a11., Christian, David. A History of Russia, Mongolia and Central Asia. Blackwell, 1999., Dolger F. Regesten der Kaiserurkunden des ostromischen Reiches. I . Berlin, 1924., Dolukhanov, P.M. The Early Slavs: Eastern Europe and the Initial Settlement to Kievan Rus'. London: Longman, 1996., Duczko, WAadysAaw. Viking Rus: Studies on the Presence of Scandinavians in Eastern Europe . Brill, 2004., The Encyclopaedia of The Lay of Igor's Campaign , in 5 volumes. Volume 3. St. Petersburg, 1995., Franklin, Simon and Jonathan Shepard. The Emergence of Rus 750a1200. London: Longman, 1996. ISBN 0-582-49091-X., Garipzanov, Ildar. The Annals of St. Bertin and the Chacanus of the Rhos . University of Bergen, 2006., Golden, Peter Benjamin. "Rus." Encyclopaedia of Islam Eds.: P. Bearman, Th. Bianquis, C.E. Bosworth, E. van Donzel and W.P. Heinrichs. Brill. Brill Online, 2006, Golden, Peter Benjamin. The Question of the Rus' Qaganate . Archivum Eurasiae Medii Aevi , 1982., Halperin, Charles J. Russia and the Golden Horde: The Mongol Impact on Medieval Russian History. Bloomington: Univ. of Indiana Press, 1987. ISBN 0-253-20445-3., Hansen, Mogens Herman, ed. A Comparative Study of Thirty City-state Cultures . Kgl. Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, 2000. Page 266., Hrushevsky, Mikhailo. History of Ukraine-Rus', trans. Marta Skorupsky. Canadian Inst. of Ukr. Studies Press, 1997., Huxley, George. "Byzantinochazarika." Hermathena 148 (1990): 79., Ilarion of Kiev. "Sermon on Law and Grace". Sermons and Rhetoric of Kievan Rus'. Simon Franklin, transl. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Ukrainian Research Institute, 1991. , Jones, Gwyn. A History of the Vikings. 2nd ed. London: Oxford Univ. Press, 1984., Kovalev, Roman. "What Does Historical Numismatics Suggest about the Monetary History of Khazaria in the Ninth Century?- Question Revisited." Archivum Eurasiae Medii Aevi 13(2004):97a129. , Laurent, J. and M. Canard. L'Armenie entre Byzance et l'Islam depuis la conquete arabe jusqu'en 886 . Lisbon, 1980., DDNDDNDDD D.D. "D DDNND DDDDNDDD DNND D DNDNDNND NDDDDDDN DNDDDDNNNNDDDD DDNNDDNNNDD D DDNDDDDNDDD DNDNNNNDDD DDNDDNND." [ On the Place of Northern Rus in the Genesis of the Old Rus' State and European Cultural Continuum ]. DNNDDDDDDNDNDDD DNNDDDDDDDDD DDDDDNDDNDDD DDDDD . Leningrad, 1984., Minorsky, Vladimir. Hudud al-'Alam (The Regions of the World) . London: Luzac and Co., 1937., "Monumenta Germaniae Historica, Epistolae VII". Epistolae Karolini aevi V . Berlin: W. Henze, 1928., Noonan, Thomas. "The Khazar Qaghanate and Its Impact On the Early Rus' State: The translatio imperii from Itil to Kiev." Nomads in the Sedentary World , Anatoly Mikhailovich Khazanov and Andre Wink, eds. p.76a102. Richmond, England: Curzon, 2001. ISBN 0-7007-1370-0., Noonan, Thomas. "When Did Rus/Rus' Merchants First Visit Khazaria and Baghdad?" Archivum Eurasiae Medii Aevi 7 (1987a1991): 213a219., Noonan, Thomas. "The First Major Silver Crisis in Russia and the Baltic, ca. 875a900". Hikuin , 11 (1985): 41a50., Noonan, Thomas. "Fluctuations in Islamic Trade with Eastern Europe during the Viking Age". Harvard Ukrainian Studies , 1992, a16., Noonan, Thomas. "The Monetary System of Kiev in the Pre-Mongol Period". Harvard Ukrainian Studies , 1987, a11. Page 396., DDDDNDDNNDD D.D. et al. DNDDDDNNNNDDD DDNNDDNNNDD D DDD DDDDNDDNDDDDD DDDNDDDD. [ Old Rus' State And Its International Relations ]. Moscow, 1965., DDDDNDDNNDD D.D. "D DDDNDNN DD DDDDD DD DNDDDDDNDN NDNNDDD NNNNDDDD DDNDN". [ On One of the Oldest Titles of the Rus' Princes ]. DNNDNDN DDDD. a 1982. a DND. 4., Pritsak, Omeljan. The Origin of Rus'. Cambridge Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1991., Pritsak, Omeljan. The Origins of the Old Rus' Weights and Monetary Systems. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Ukrainian Research Institute, 1998. , Shepard, Jonathan. "The Khazars' Formal Adoption of Judaism and Byzantium's Northern Policy." Oxford Slavonic Papers, New Series 31 (1998):24., Smirnov, Pavel. Volz'kiy shlyakh i starodavni Rusy ( The Volga route and the ancient Rus ). Kiev, 1928., Theophanes Continuatus, Ioannes Cameniata, Symeon Magister, Georgius Monachus . Ed. I. Becker. Bonnae, 1838 (CSHB), pp.342a343., Vasiliev, Alexander. The Russian Attack on Constantinople in 860 . Mediaeval Academy of America, 1946., Vernadsky, G.V. A History of Russia . Vol. 1. Yale University Press, 1943 (Russian version online), Vernadsky, G.V., ed. A Source Book for Russian History from Early Times to 1917, Vol. 1. New Haven: Yale Univ. Press, 1972., Yanin, Valentin. DDDDDDD-DDNDDND NDNNDDN NNNNDDDD NNDDDDDDDDDNN. DDDDDDDDNNDDD DDNDDD. [ The Monetary Systems of the Russian Middle Ages. The Pre-Mongol Period ]. Moscow, 1956., Zenkovsky, Serge A., ed. Medieval Russia's Epics, Chronicles, and Tales. New York: Meridian, 1974. ISBN 0-452-01086-1., Zuckerman, Constantine. "Deux Atapes de la formation de l'ancien Atat russe", in Les centres proto-urbains russes entre Scandinavie, Byzance et Orient: Actes du Colloque International tenu au CollAge de France en octobre 1997 , Ad. M. Kazanski, A. Nersessian et C. Zuckerman (RAalitAs Byzantines 7). Paris, 2000 (Russian translation online)., Zuckerman, Constantine. "Les Hongrois au Pays de Lebedia: une nouvelle puissance aux confins de Byzance et de la Khazarie en 836a889." Byzantium at War (9tha12th c.) Athens, 1997., . 
External links [ edit ] 
Britannica Concise on the Origins of Russia., Pritsak on the Origins of the Rus'., Rus' in the Hudud al-Alam., Waugh, Daniel C. "Suggested Chronology of Events in the Pre-Kievan and Early Kievan Periods"., . 
Notes [ edit ] 
^ "By the end of the 9th century, Helgi/Oleh the empire builder [...] had from his capital in Kiev gained control over most of the East Slavic tribes [to] the upper Volga in the far north." Magocsi, Paul Robert (2010). A History of Ukraine: A Land and Its Peoples . Toronto: University of Toronto Press. p.66. , ^ a b c ""A violent civil war took place during the 820s [...] The losers of the internal political struggle, known as Kabars, fled northward to the Varangian Rus' in the upper Volga region, near Rostov, and southward to the Magyars, who formerly had been loyal vassals of the Khazars. The presence of Kabar political refugees from Khazaria among the Varangian traders in Rostov helped to raise the latter's prestige, with the consequence that by the 830s a new power center known as the Rus' Kaganate had come into existence." Magocsi, Paul Robert (2010). A History of Ukraine: A Land and Its Peoples . Toronto: University of Toronto Press. p.62. , ^ The citation combines sources from David Herlihy article "Medieval Demography" in the Dictionary of the Middle Ages (see Bibliography this article), and from Josiah C. Russell, "Population in Europe", in Carlo M. Cipolla, ed., The Fontana Economic History of Europe , Vol. I: The Middle Ages, (Glasgow: Collins/Fontana, 1972), 25a71 , ^ E.g., Christian, David. A History of Russia, Mongolia and Central Asia. Blackwell, 1999. p. 38. , ^ a b Franklin, Simon and Jonathan Shepard. The Emergence of Rus 750a1200. London: Longman, 1996. ISBN 0-582-49091-X. pp. 33a36. , ^ a b Dolukhanov, P.M. The Early Slavs: Eastern Europe and the Initial Settlement to Kievan Rus'. London: Longman, 1996. p. 187. , ^ Duczko, p. 29 , ^ Jones 249a250. , ^ A minority of scholars believe that the reference was to a king bearing the Old Norse name HAkan or Haakon . See, e.g. , Garipzanov 8a11. , ^ Annales Bertiniani, a. 839 , (The Annals of St. Bertin). Ed. Georg Waitz, Monumenta Germaniae Historica, Scriptores rerum Germanicarum in usum scholarum. Hannoverae, 1883. pp.19a20; Jones, Gwyn. A History of the Vikings. 2nd ed. London: Oxford Univ. Press, 1984. pp.249-50. , ^ Monumenta Germaniae 385a394. , ^ cagano veram non praelatum Avarum, non Gazanorum aut Nortmannorum nuncipari reperimus. Duczko 25. , ^ Dolger T. 59, a487. , ^ BrAndsted (1965), pp. 267a268. , ^ a b Zuckerman, "Deux Atapes" 96. , ^ Laurent and Canard 490. , ^ Duczko 25. , ^ Minorsky 159. , ^ See, e.g ., Minorsky xvi. , ^ a b c "Rus", Encyclopaedia of Islam . , ^ Pritsak, Origin of Rus', passim. , ^ Pritsak, Origin of Rus', passim. , ^ Golden 87, 97. , ^ DDDDNDDDNDD 222a224. , ^ a b Vernadsky VII-4. , ^ Franklin and Shepard 27a50. , ^ Artamonov 271a290. , ^ From the Baltic to the Black Sea: Studies in Medieval Archaeology (One World Archaeology, 18) by David Austin Publisher: Routledge; New edition (June 27, 1997).pp.285a286; D. DNDD. D DDDNDNN D DDNDDD DDDDD// DDDNDNN DNNDNDD. a a 4 a 1989 a N. 118 a 127. , ^ Yanin 105a106; Noonan, The Monetary System of Kiev 396. , ^ Zuckerman, "Les Hongrois au Pays de Lebedia" 65a66. , ^ DDDDNDDNNDD 397a408. , ^ Zuckerman, 2000; DDNDDNDDD 5a25. , ^ A Comparative Study of Thirty City-state Cultures 266. , ^ BrAndsted 67a68; for a detailed analysis of recent archaeological investigations at Holmgard, see Duczko 102a104. , ^ DDNDDNDDD 5a25; see also Duczko 31a32. , ^ "Online Etymology Dictionary". Etymonline.com . Retrieved 2012-08-15 . , ^ "in 839, the Rus' were Swedes. In 1043, the Rus' were Slavs." (F. Donald Logan, The Vikings in History , cit. Montgomery, p.24), ^ "Rus - definition of Rus by the Free Online Dictionary, Thesaurus and Encyclopedia". Thefreedictionary.com . Retrieved 2012-08-15 . , ^ Brutzkus 120. , ^ Pritsak, Origins of Rus' 1:28, 171, 182. , ^ Archaeologists did not find traces of a settlement in Rostov prior to the 970s. Furthermore, the placename "Rostov" has a transparent Slavic etymology. , ^ Duczko 31. , ^ Brook 154; Franklin and Shepard 120a121; Pritsak, Weights 78a79. , ^ But see , e.g., Duczko 31a32, outlining theories that Rurik held the title of Khagan Rus'. , ^ Golden 77a99; Duczko 30. , ^ a b Zuckerman, "Deux Atapes". , ^ DDDDNDDNNDD , ^ Noonan, "Khazar" 87a89, 94. , ^ Brook 154; Noonan, "Khazar" 87a94. , ^ a b Christian 340a341, citing ibn Fadlan's Risala . , ^ Ibn Fadlan, Risala . English translation in BrAndsted 266a267 , ^ Ibn Rustah. English translation in BrAndsted 266a267 , ^ Christian 341. , ^ Brutzkus 111. , ^ Ibn Rustah. English translation in BrAndsted 305 , ^ BrAndsted 305 , ^ Ibn Fadlan describes the Rus' as addicted to beer, "and often one of them has been found dead with a beaker in his hand." Ibn Fadlan, Risala . English translation in BrAndsted 301 , ^ Ibn Fadlan, Risala . English translation in BrAndsted 301a305 , ^ BrAndsted 268 , ^ Ibn Fadlan, Risala . English translation in BrAndsted 301a305. See also "Rus", Encyclopaedia of Islam . , ^ Ibn Fadlan, Risala . English translation in BrAndsted 265, 305; "Rus", Encyclopaedia of Islam passim , ^ Ibn Rustah. English translation in BrAndsted 268. See also "Rus", Encyclopaedia of Islam . , ^ Ibn Fadlan, Risala . English translation in BrAndsted 266. See also "Rus", Encyclopaedia of Islam . , ^ Photii Patriarchae Constantinopolitani Epistulae et Amphilochia. Ed. B. Laourdas, L.G. Westerinck. T.1. Leipzig, 1983. P. 49. , ^ Theophanes 342a343. , ^ A. Shakhmatov, Survey of the Oldest Period of the History of the Russian Language. Encyclopedia of Slavonic Philology, II, 1 (Petrograd, 1915), XXVIII, cited in Vasiliev 12 , ^ Vasiliev 13. , ^ Shepard 24; Kovalev 124. , ^ Hrushevsky 1:176. , ^ Huxley passim . , ^ Franklin and Shepard, 50a55. , ^ ibn Khordadbeh, as cited in Vernadsky 1:9 , ^ E.g., Jones 164 (summarizing evidence from al-Masudi and al-Muqaddasi); Franklin and Shepard 67-8; Christian 340. , ^ DNDDNDDNDDD 42a96. , ^ Noonan, "Silver Crisis" 41a50; Noonan, "Fluctuations in Islamic Trade" passim , ^ Franklin and Shepard, 91a111. , ^ See, e.g., Duczko 81 et seq. , discussing the argument among various scholars as to whether the devastating attacks of the 860s and 870s were caused by Rurik and a new wave of Norse settlers who supplanted the old Rus Khagans, whether the burnings of the Rus' settlements were the result of civil war unconnected to Rurik's purported ascendency, or whether they were caused by unrelated incursions by Norsemen or other people. , ^ Franklin and Shepard, 53. , v , t , e , . GarAarAki , Names in italics are settlements whose Norse names are not recorded , Volkhov-Volga trade route Lyubsha , Aldeigja, Alaborg, Duboviki , HAlmgarAr, Sarskoe , Timerevo , Balymer , . , Dvina-Dnieper trade route Pallteskja, Gnezdovo , Chernigov , KAnugarAr, . , Other locations Bjarmaland, Khortitsa , White Shores , MiklagarAr, SArkland, . , Varangians, Kylfings, Rus', Slavs, Merya, Bulgars, Khazars, Romanians, . , v , t , e , . Germanic peoples , Languages Germanic Parent Language, Proto-Germanic, North Germanic Old Norse, . , West Germanic Ingvaeonic, South Germanic, . , Northwest Germanic, East Germanic, Germanic philology, . , Prehistory Nordic Bronze Age, Pre-Roman Iron Age, Jastorf, Nordwestblock, Przeworsk, Wielbark, Oksywie, Chernyakhov, . , Roman Iron Age Magna Germania, Wars with Rome, Battle of the Teutoburg Forest, Germania , Irminones, Ingaevones, Istvaeones, Chatti, Marcomanni, Suebi, . , Migration Period Germanic Iron Age, Alemanni, Anglo-Saxons Angles, Jutes, Saxons, . , Burgundians, Dani, Franks, Frisii, Geats, Goths Visigoths, Ostrogoths, Valagoths, Gothic Wars, . , Gotlanders, Lombards, Rus', Scirii, Suebi, Suiones, Vandals, Varangians, Christianization of the Germanic peoples, Romanization, . , Society and culture Mead hall, Poetry, Migration Period art, Runes Runic calendar, . , Sippe, Law Lawspeaker, Thing, . , Calendar, King, Names, Numbers, Romano-Germanic culture, . , Religion WAdanaz, Donar, Nerthus, Veleda, Tuisto, Mannus, Paganism Anglo-Saxon, Continental Germanic mythology, Frankish, Norse, . , Christianity Arianism, Gothic, . , . , Dress Bracteates, Fibula, Suebian knot, . , Warfare Gothic, Anglo-Saxon, Viking, Spear, Sword, . , Burial practices Tumulus, Ship burial, Viking Age, Alemannic, Sutton Hoo, Spong Hill, . , List of ancient Germanic peoples, Portal:Ancient Germanic culture, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate , Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Rus'_Khaganate and oldid=624129920" Categories: Former monarchies of Europe, Former countries in Europe, Rus, Former Slavic countries, Groups connected to the Khazars, Medieval Russia, Medieval Ukraine, Khaganates, Viking Age, . Hidden categories: Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages, Former country articles requiring maintenance, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from December 2013, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, DNDDDNNDD, DODDNDD, AeAtina, IIIIIIII, EspaAol, UOOOU, FranAais, iei, Italiano, LietuviA, Nederlands, aeaee, Polski, PortuguAs, DNNNDDD, SlovenAina, SlovenAAina, Svenska, DDNDNDNNDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 4 September 2014 at 08:25.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
