
Council of Ministers of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Council of Ministers of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia AA(Redirected from Russian Council of Ministers) Jump to: navigation, search 
The Russian Council of Ministers is an executive governmental council that brings together the principal officers of the Executive Branch of the Russian government. This include the chairman of the government and ministers of federal government departments.
Contents
1 Imperial Russia 1.1 Committee of Ministers 1.1.1 Chairmen of the committee of Ministers ( de facto ), 1802 a 1810 , 1.1.2 Chairmen of the committee of Ministers, 1810 a 1905 , . , 1.2 Council of Ministers , . , 2 Soviet Russia , 3 Russian Federation , 4 See also , . 
Imperial Russia [ edit ] 
Committee of Ministers [ edit ] 
The Ministries and the Committee of Ministers (DDDDNDN DDDDNNNDD) were created in the early 19th century as part of the Government reform of Alexander I. The Committee was an advisory board for the Emperor but could only consider matters referred to it by the monarch or when details for implementation of policy were brought to it by ministers. However, the Committee had little collective power and did not make decisions, just recommendations. When the monarch presided personally over Committee meetings it was referred to as a council as the monarch had decision/policy making authority that the committee did not possess.
Chairmen of the committee of Ministers ( de facto ), 1802 a 1810 [ edit ] 
Alexander Romanovich Vorontsov (1802a1804) as Imperial Chancellor and Foreign Minister, Adam Jerzy Czartoryski (1804a1806) as Foreign Minister, Andrei Yakovlevich Budberg (1806a1807) as Foreign Minister, Nikolay Petrovich Rumyantsev (1807a1810) as Foreign Minister, . 
Chairmen of the committee of Ministers, 1810 a 1905 [ edit ] 
Nikolay Petrovich Rumyantsev (1810a1812), Nikolay Ivanovich Saltykov (1812a1816), Pyotr Vasilyevich Lopukhin (1816a1827), Viktor Pavlovich Kochubey (1827a1834), Nikolay Nikolayevich Novosiltsev (1834a1838), Illarion Vasilyevich Vasilchikov (1838a1847), Vasily Vasilyevich Levashov (1847a1848), Aleksandr Ivanovich Chernyshov (1848a1856), Aleksey Fyodorovich Orlov (1856a1861), Dmitry Nikolayevich Bludov (1861a1864), Pavel Pavlovich Gagarin (1865a1872), Nikolay Pavlovich Ignatyev (1872a1879), Pyotr Aleksandrovich Valuyev (1879a1881), Mikhail Khristoforovich Reitern (1881a1887), Nikolai Khristianovich Bunge (1887a1895), Ivan Nikolayevich Durnovo (1895a1903), Sergei Yulyevich Witte (1903a1905), . 
Council of Ministers [ edit ] 
After Nicholas II issued the October Manifesto of 1905 granting civil liberties and a national legislature (Duma and a reformed State Council), the Committee was replaced with a Council of Ministers . Unlike the Committee of Ministers, this council was presided over by a Chairman (DDDDN DDDDNNNDD) besides the Emperor, and functioned as a policy making cabinet with its Chairman acting as Prime Minister (head) of the government. As a result, from 1905-1917 the Council of Ministers collectively decided the government's policy, tactical direction, and served as a buffer between the Emperor and the national legislature.
Soviet Russia [ edit ] 
Main article: Council of People's Commissars (Russia) 
The Sovnarkom of the RSFSR was the basis for all Soviet governments, including both Union and republican levels, until 1946, when all of the Sovnarkoms were renamed "Councils of Ministers". With the leading role of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU) fixed by law in the 1936 Soviet Constitution, the governments were little more than the executive bodies of the Central Committee of the CPSU. The CPSU's leading role was also stated in the 1977 Soviet Constitution, and was not abolished until 1991.
Russian Federation [ edit ] 
Main article: Government of the Russian Federation 
After the fall of the Soviet Union the Russian Council of Ministers became the chief body of administration for the President of the Russian Federation. At times it consisted of as many as 60 ministries and state committees and up to 12 Vice-Premiers. After the 2004 reform, Government duties were split between 17 Ministries, 7 Federal Services and over 30 governmental Agencies.
The Prime Minister is appointed by the President of the Russian Federation and confirmed by the State Duma. The Chairman is second in line to succeed to the Presidency of Russia if the current President dies, is incapacitated or resigns.
See also [ edit ] 
Premier of the Soviet Union, Prime Minister of Russia, . 
v , t , e , . Government of the Russian Federation , Offices subordinated to the President of Russia , Ministry of Internal Affairs Police of the Russian Federation, Internal Troops, . , Ministry for Affairs of Civil Defence, Emergencies and Disaster Relief Russian State Fire Service, State Inspectorate for Small Ships, . , Ministry of Foreign Affairs Agency of CIS affairs, . , Ministry of Defence Service of Military-Technical Cooperation, Service of Technical and Export Control, Service for Defence Contracts, Agency of Special Construction, . , Ministry of Justice Federal Penitentiary Service, Service of Court Bailiffs, . , Presidential Services
and Directorates Foreign Intelligence Service, Federal Security Service, Federal Drug Control Service of Russia, Federal Protective Service, Special Communications Service, State Courier Service, Chief Directorate of Special Programs of the President, Federal Financial Monitoring, Directorate of the President, . , Offices subordinated to Government of Russia head by the Chairman , Ministry of Health Service of Supervision in the Sphere of Public Health Services, Medical and Biologic Agency, . , Ministry of Culture Federal Archival Agency, . , Ministry of Education
and Science Service for Supervision in the Sphere of Education and Science, Service for Intellectual Property, Patents and Trademarks, Agency of Education, Agency of Science and Innovation, Federal Youth Agency, . , Ministry of Natural Resources
and Environment Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring, Service of Supervision in Sphere of Wildlife Management, Agency of Water Resources, Agency on the use of Mineral Resources, . , Ministry of Industry and Trade Agency of Technical Regulation and Metrology, . , Ministry of Regional Development , Ministry for Development of Russian Far East , Ministry of Crimean Affairs , Ministry of Communications
and Mass Media Agency of Communication, Agency on Information Technologies, Federal Agency on Press and Mass Communications of the Russian Federation, Federal Service for Supervision of Communications, Information Technology and Mass Media, . , Ministry of Agriculture Service of Veterinary and Phytosanitary Supervision, Agency of Forestry, Agency of Fisheries, . , Ministry of Sport , Ministry of Construction, Housing and Utilities , Ministry of Transport Federal Service of Supervision of Transport, Air Transport Agency, Road Agency, Agency of Railway Transport, Agency of Sea and River Transport, . , Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Federal Service for Labour and Employment, . , Ministry of Finance Federal Tax Service, Service of Insurance Supervision, Service of Financial-Budgetary Supervision, Treasury, . , Ministry of Economic
Development Agency for State Reserves, Agency for State Property Management, State Statistics, . , Ministry of Energy Russian Energy Agency, . , Governmental committees, services and agencies Federal Migratory Service, Federal Antimonopoly Service, Federal Service for Supervision of Consumer Rights Protection and Human Welfare, Service for Hydrometeorology and the Monitoring of the Environment, Federal Customs Service, Service of Ecological, Technological and Nuclear Supervision, Service on Tariffs, Federal Financial Monitoring Service, Financial Market Service, Federal Space Agency, Agency for Deliveries of Military and Special Equipment of Material Means, Agency on the Arrangement of the State Boundary, Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Council_of_Ministers_of_Russia and oldid=616897165" Categories: Government of Russia, Government of the Russian Empire, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
Nederlands, PortuguAs, DNNNDDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 14 July 2014 at 11:03.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
