
Rossiyane - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Rossiyane 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . 
, This article has been translated from a Wikipedia article in another language, and requires proofreading. 
If you are confident enough in your fluency of English and the original language, please feel free to join this translation. , This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2014) , This article uses bare URLs for citations, which may be threatened by link rot. Please consider adding full citations so that the article remains verifiable. Several templates and the Reflinks tool are available to assist in formatting. (Reflinks documentation) (August 2014) , This article has no lead section . Please help by adding an introductory section to this article. For more information, see the layout guide, and Wikipedia's lead section guidelines. (August 2014) , This article is about all citizens of Russia, regardless of ethnicity. For the Russian ethnic group, see Russians. For other uses, see Russian (disambiguation). 
Rossiyane 
(inhabitants of Russia)
NDNNDNDD 1st St. Vladimir Alexander Nevsky Ivan IV Peter I Mikhail Lomonosov Alexander Suvorov Nikolai Lobachevsky Alexander Pushkin 2nd Nikolai Gogol Alexander II Fyodor Dostoevsky Leo Tolstoy Dmitri Mendeleev Modest Mussorgsky Pyotr Tchaikovsky Ilya Repin 3rd Ivan Pavlov Sofia Kovalevskaya Anton Chekhov Konstantin Stanislavsky Wassily Kandinsky Vladimir Lenin Sergei Rachmaninov Anna Pavlova 4th Igor Stravinsky Mikhail Bulgakov Georgi Zhukov Sergei Korolyov Andrey Tarkovsky Yuri Gagarin Garry Kasparov Maria Sharapova , Total population 146 million (all citizens of Russia, 100/td> Languages Russian (state language throughout Russia), 27 co-official and also other languages, Religion Christianity, Islam, Buddhism, Judaism (four traditional religions in Russia), Rossiyane (plural, Russian: NDNNDNDD ), Rossiyanin (masculine, Russian: NDNNDNDDD ), Rossiyanka (feminine, Russian: NDNNDNDDD ) is a demonym for Russia that is widely used for all citizens of Russia, regardless of ethnicity. Rossiyane are the people who live in Russia and the people who have a Russian identity a residential, legal, historical or cultural. The term includes all inhabitants of Russia; [ 1 ] those who belong to ethnic groups native to Russian territory (Russians, Tatars, Ukrainians, Bashkirs, Chuvash people, Chechens, etc.) and those who do not (for example, Afro-Russians, Russian: DNNDNDNNDNDD - Afro- Rossiyane ). Those who have received Russian citizenship via naturalisation are also called Rossiyane, regardless of ethnicity and mother tongue (for example, GArard Depardieu or Viktor Ahn).
The word Rossiyane is derived from the word Rossiya (Russia). Its derivation is similar to derivation Britain a British, Canada a Canadians, Switzerland a Swiss people, United States of America a Americans, Australia a Australians, India a Indians, Soviet Union a Soviet people, China a Chinese Nation, Yugoslavia a Yugoslavs (it doesn't refer to ethnicity). The term Rossiyane doesn't have corresponding English word, but it is in German (German: RusslAndisch instead of ethnic term German: Russen ), Swedish (Swedish: RysslAndare instead of Swedish: Ryssar ), Kazakh (Kazakh: NDNDDDNDNDN instead of Kazakh: DNNNNDN ), [ 2 ] Armenian (Armenian: OOOOOOOOOOOOOO rusastantsiner instead of OOOOOOO rusner ), [ 3 ] etc.
Rossiyane (Russians) have a common history, share a common Russia-related culture and speak the Russian language (because it is the state language throughout Russia). The word Rossiyane refers to all people holding citizenship of Russia, regardless of their ethnicity, and does not include ethnic Russians living outside of Russia, but include all non-Russians living in Russia. The word Rossiyane is used much more often than Russkie (ethnic Russians) - on television, in politics, in official documents and scientific papers (the word Russkie is only used when talking about ethnicity).
The Tsardom of Russia became a multinational state in the 16th century. The word Rossiyane was coined by Mikhail Lomonosov in the 18th century. The word has been widely used since then. After the fall of the Russian Empire, the expression "Soviet people" was used for the population of the Soviet Union, regardless of ethnicity. After the dissolution of the USSR, the word Rossiyane became widely used again. Modern Russia has over 160 different ethnic groups within the Russian Federation's borders. The word Rossiyane was often used by the first Russian President Boris Yeltsin in his addresses to the Russian people. Vladimir Putin often uses the words "multinational people of Russia". Russian [ethnic] nationalists often criticise the term Rossiyane.
The Constitution of Russia uses the expression "We, the multinational people of the Russian Federation". [ 4 ] Russian citizens can declare any ethnicity on a voluntary basis (real ethnicity as well as not real, including "Jedi", "gnomes", "goblins", "elves", "hobbits", "Martians", "Scythians", "Babylonians", "Romans", "Incas" - according to the 2002 Russian Census official statistics [ NB 1 ] ). The Constitution of Russia stated "Everyone shall have the right to determine and declare his (her) nationality. Nobody shall be forced to determine and declare his (her) nationality". The Russian word "nationality" means "ethnicity" in English language and doesn't refer to a citizenship. The word "nation" is rarely used in the Russian language. According to 2010 Russian Census, Russia has 194 real ethnic groups.
Contents
1 See also , 2 Notes , 3 References , 4 External links , . 
See also [ edit ] 
Russian nationality law, Demographics of Russia, All-Russian nation, Soviet people, Ethnic groups in Russia, . 
Notes [ edit ] 
^ see Russian Wikipedia article ru:DNDNNDDDDND DDNDDN D DDNNDD (Russian) , References [ edit ] 
^ http://gramota.ru/spravka/buro/29_343795 , ^ http://russian_kazakh.academic.ru/28051/NDNNDNDD , ^ OOO OOOOOOOO OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO, OOO OOOOOOO OO OOOOOOOO OOOOOOOOOOO OOOOOOOOO , ^ http://eng.constitution.kremlin.ru/ , External links [ edit ] 
, Look up NDNNDNDD , NDNNDNDDD , or NDNNDNDDD in Wiktionary, the free dictionary., Rossiyane (Dictionary of the Russian Language (Ozhegov)), . 
v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens , Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Immigration to Russia , From Europe Belarusians, Germans, Greeks (Pontic) , Norwegians, Polish, Swiss, Ukrainians, Jews, Serbs, . , From Asia Armenians, Assyrians, Azerbaijanis, Chinese, Indians, Japanese, Koreans Koryo-saram , Sakhalin , North Koreans , . , Nepalis, Pakistanis, Turks, Vietnamese, . , From Africa Black Africans, . , v , t , e , . People from Russia , Political and religious leaders Pre-1168, 1168a1917, 1922a1991, 1991apresent, RSFSR leaders, General secretaries, Soviet premiers (1st deputies), Soviet heads of state (and their spouses), Prime ministers (1st deputies), Foreign ministers, Prosecutors general, Metropolitans and Patriarchs, Saints (1, 2), . , Military figures and explorers Field marshals, Soviet marshals, Admirals, Aviators, Cosmonauts, . , Scientists, engineers and inventors Aerospace engineers, Astronomers and astrophysicists, Biologists, Chemists, Earth scientists, Electrical engineers, IT developers, Linguists and philologists, Mathematicians, Naval engineers, Physicians and psychologists, Physicists, Weaponry makers, . , Artists and writers Architects, Ballet dancers, Composers, Opera singers, Novelists, Philosophers, Playwrights, Poets, . , Sportspeople Chess players, . , This Russia-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v , t , e , . , This article about ethnicity or ethnology is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v , t , e , . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Rossiyane and oldid=628123205" Categories: Demographics of Russia, Demonyms, Russia, European people, People of Russia, Russian society, Immigrants to Russia, Russia stubs, Ethnicity stubs, . Hidden categories: Articles with Russian-language external links, Articles needing additional references from April 2014, All articles needing additional references, Articles needing cleanup from August 2014, Articles needing link rot cleanup from August 2014, All articles needing link rot cleanup, Articles covered by WikiProject Wikify from August 2014, All articles covered by WikiProject Wikify, Wikipedia introduction cleanup from August 2014, All pages needing cleanup, Pages missing lead section, Articles containing Russian-language text, Articles containing German-language text, Articles containing Swedish-language text, Articles containing Kazakh-language text, Articles containing Armenian-language text, All stub articles, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
Deutsch, EspaAol, PortuguAs, DNNNDDD, Simple English, Svenska, . Edit links This page was last modified on 3 October 2014 at 19:50.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
