
Second Chechen War - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Second Chechen War 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search This article is about the war during period of 1999-2009. For the current conflict in North Caucasus, see Insurgency in the North Caucasus. 
Part of ChechenaRussian conflict, Russian artillery shells militant positions near the village of Duba-Yurt in January 2000, Date Battle phase: 26 August 1999 a May 2000 [ 1 ] 
Insurgency phase: June 2000 a 15 April 2009
(9years, 7months and 3weeks), Location Chechnya, Russia , Result Russian victory Establishment of a pro-Russian Chechen government, Territorial integrity of the Russian Federation is preserved, Ongoing low-level insurgency, . , Russian Federation Chechnya, . , Republic of Ichkeria
(1999a2007)
Caucasus Emirate
(2007a2009)
Caucasian Front
various foreign Muslim volunteers, Vladimir Putin
Igor Sergeyev
Viktor Kazantsev
Boris Yeltsin ( until 31 December 1999 ) 
Gennady Troshev
Vladimir Boldyrev
Alexander Baranov
Anatoliy Serdyukov
Sergei Ivanov
Nikolai Patrushev
Valentin Korabelnikov
Anatoly Kvashnin
Yuri Baluyevsky
Akhmad Kadyrov a 
Alu Alkhanov
Ramzan Kadyrov
Sergei Abramov
Mukhu Aliyev, Aslan Maskhadov a 
Abdul Halim Sadulayev a 
Dokka Umarov
Ilyas Akhmadov
Turpal-Ali Atgeriyev a 
Akhmed Avtorkhanov a 
Ibn al-Khattab a 
Abu al-Walid a 
Abu Hafs al-Urduni a 
Muhannad
Ali Taziev
Supyan Abdullayev
Shamil Basayev a 
Ruslan Gelayev a 
Salman Raduyev a 
Sulim Yamadayev a 
Rappani Khalilov a 
Yassir al-Sudani, 80, 000 in 1999, 22, 000 [ 2 ] -30, 000 [ 3 ] in 1999, 3, 536-3, 635 soldiers, [ 4 ] [ 5 ] 
2, 364a2, 572 Interior ministry troops, [ 6 ] [ 7 ] [ 8 ] 
1, 072 Chechen police officers [ 9 ] [ 10 ] 
and 106 FSB and GRU operatives killed [ 11 ] 
Total killed: 7, 217a7, 425 *, 14, 113 militants killed (1999a2002) [ 12 ] 
2, 186 militants killed (2003a2009) [ 13 ] 
Total killed: 16, 299 , Civilian casualties :
Estimate up to 25, 000 killed and up to 5, 000 "disappeared" in Chechnya (AI estimate), [ 14 ] 
Estimate total number of casualties 80, 000 killed in Chechnya (GfbV estimate), [ 15 ] 
More in neighbouring regions, More than 600 killed during attacks in Russia proper.
Total killed military/civilian: 50, 000a80, 000 , *The Committee of soldiers' mothers group disputed the official government count of the number of war dead and claimed that 11, 000 Russian servicemen were killed during the war. [ 16 ] , v , t , e , . Post-Soviet conflicts , Nagorno-Karabakh, 1st South Ossetia, 1st Abkhazia, Georgia, North Ossetia, Transnistria, Tajikistan, 1st Chechnya, 2nd Abkhazia, Dagestan, 2nd Chechnya , 1st Kodori, Pankisi Gorge, 2nd Kodori, North Caucasus Ingushetia, . , Russo-Georgian, Eastern Tajikistan, Ukraine revolution, . , Southern and Eastern Ukraine Donbass, . , . , v , t , e , . Terrorist attacks and suicide bombings in Russia , Bold indicates incidents resulting in over 50 deaths.
Incidents are bombings unless described otherwise. , 1995 Budyonnovsk hospital crisis , . , 1996 Kizlyar-Pervomayskoye hostage crisis , . , 1999 Vladikavkaz , Apartment bombings , . , 2002 Kaspiysk, Moscow theater crisis , Grozny , . , 2003 Znamenskoye , Tushino, Stavropol, Red Square, . , 2004 Moscow Metro (1st), Grozny Dynamo stadium, Moscow Metro (2nd), Aircraft bombings , Beslan school crisis , . , 2006 Moscow (Cherkizovsky Market), . , 2008 Vladikavkaz, . , 2009 Nazran, Nevsky Express, . , 2010 Moscow Metro, Kizlyar, Stavropol, Tsentoroy, Vladikavkaz, Grozny, . , 2011 Domodedovo Airport, . , 2012 Makhachkala, . , 2013 Volgograd (October), Volgograd (December), . , 2014 Grozny, . , Part of the: First Chechen War, War of Dagestan, Second Chechen War , North Caucasus insurgency, . , v , t , e , . ChechenaRussian conflict , Russian Empire era 
Sheikh Mansur uprising, Caucasian War 1817-64, . 
Soviet Union era 
Insurgency 1920s-1930s, 1940a44 insurgency in Chechnya, Operation Lentil, Chechen-Slav clashes (1958a65), . 
Russian Federation era 
First Chechen War, Second Chechen War , Insurgency (2009-present), . , The Second Chechen War was launched by the Russian Federation, starting 26 August 1999, in response to the Invasion of Dagestan by the Islamic International Brigade (IIB).
On 1 October Russian troops entered Chechnya. [ 17 ] [ 18 ] The campaign ended the de facto independence of the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria and restored Russian federal control over the territory. Although it is regarded by many as an internal conflict within the Russian Federation, the war attracted a large number of foreign fighters.
During the initial campaign, Russian military and pro-Russian Chechen paramilitary forces faced Chechen separatists in open combat, and seized the Chechen capital Grozny after a winter siege that lasted from late 1999 to the following February 2000. Russia established direct rule of Chechnya in May 2000 and after the full-scale offensive Chechen militant resistance throughout the North Caucasus region continued to inflict heavy Russian casualties and challenge Russian political control over Chechnya for several more years. Some Chechen separatists also carried out attacks against civilians in Russia. These attacks, as well as widespread human rights violations by Russian and separatist forces, drew international condemnation.
In the summer of 2000, the Russian government transferred certain military operations to pro-Russian forces. The military phase of the counter-terrorist operations was terminated in April 2002, and the coordination of the field operations were given to the FSB and then to the MVD in the summer of 2003.
As of 2009, Russia has severely disabled the Chechen separatist movement and large-scale fighting has ceased. Russian army and interior ministry troops no longer occupy the streets. The once-leveled city of Grozny has recently undergone massive reconstruction efforts and much of the city and surrounding areas have been rebuilt at a quick pace. However sporadic violence still exists throughout the North Caucasus; occasional bombings and ambushes targeting federal troops and forces of the regional governments in the area still occur. [ 19 ] [ 20 ] 
On 15 April 2009, the counter-terrorism operation in Chechnya was officially ended. [ 1 ] As the main bulk of the army was withdrawn, the burden of dealing with the ongoing low-level insurgency mainly fell on the shoulders of the local police force. Three months later the exiled leader of the separatist government, Akhmed Zakayev, called for a halt to armed resistance against the Chechen police force starting on 1 August and said he hoped that "starting with this day Chechens will never shoot at each other". [ 21 ] 
The exact death toll from this conflict is unknown. Unofficial estimates range from 25, 000 to 50, 000 dead or missing, mostly civilians in Chechnya. Russian casualties are over 5, 200 (official Russian casualty figures) [ 22 ] and are about 11, 000 according to the Committee of Soldiers' Mothers. [ 23 ] 
Contents
1 Historical basis of the conflict 1.1 Russian Empire , 1.2 Soviet Union , 1.3 The First Chechen War , . , 2 Prelude to the Second Chechen War 2.1 Chaos in Chechnya , 2.2 RussianaChechen relations 1996a1999 , 2.3 Russian plans for the war , 2.4 Attacks and border clashes , 2.5 Invasion of Dagestan , 2.6 Bombings in Russia , . , 3 1999a2000 Russian offensive 3.1 Air war , 3.2 Land war , 3.3 Siege of Grozny , 3.4 Battle for the mountains , 3.5 Restoration of federal government , . , 4 Insurgency 4.1 Guerrilla war in Chechnya , 4.2 Suicide attacks , 4.3 Assassinations , 4.4 Caucasus Front , . , 5 Human rights and terrorism 5.1 Human rights and war crimes , 5.2 Terrorist attacks , . , 6 Other issues 6.1 Pankisi crisis , 6.2 Unilateral ceasefire of 2005 , 6.3 Amnesties , 6.4 Government censorship of the media coverage , . , 7 Effects 7.1 Civilian losses , 7.2 Environmental damage , 7.3 Land mines , 7.4 Military losses , 7.5 Political radicalization of the separatist movement , 7.6 Impact on the Chechen population , 7.7 Impact on the Russian population , . , 8 Status , 9 People of the Second Chechen War 9.1 Russian political leaders and commanders , 9.2 Separatist political leaders and commanders , 9.3 Other associated people , . , 10 See also , 11 References , 12 Bibliography , 13 External links , . 
Historical basis of the conflict [ edit ] 
Main article: History of Chechnya 
Russian Empire [ edit ] 
Main article: Caucasian War Chechnya and the Caucasus region 
Chechnya is a region in the Northern Caucasus which has constantly fought against foreign rule, including the Ottoman Turks in the 15th century. The Russian Terek Cossack Host was established in lowland Chechnya in 1577 by free Cossacks who were resettled from the Volga to the Terek River. In 1783 Russia and the Georgian kingdom of Kartl-Kakheti signed the Treaty of Georgievsk, under which Kartl-Kakheti became a Russian protectorate. To secure communications with Georgia and other regions of the Transcaucasia, the Russian Empire began spreading its influence into the Caucasus region, starting the Caucasus War in 1817. Russian forces first moved into highland Chechnya in 1830, and the conflict in the area lasted until 1859, when a 250, 000 strong army under General Baryatinsky broke down the mountaineers' resistance. However, frequent uprisings in the Caucasus also occurred during the Russo-Turkish War, 1877a78.
Soviet Union [ edit ] 
Following the Russian Revolution of 1917, Chechens established a short-lived Caucasian Imamate which included parts of Chechnya, Dagestan and Ingushetia; there was also the secular pan-Caucasian Mountainous Republic of the Northern Caucasus. [ 24 ] The Chechen states were opposed [ citation needed ] by both sides of the Russian Civil War and most of the resistance was crushed by Bolshevik troops by 1922. Then, months before the creation of the Soviet Union, the Chechen Autonomous Oblast of the Russian SFSR was established. It annexed a part of territory of the former Terek Cossack Host. Chechnya and neighboring Ingushetia formed the ChechenaIngush Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic in 1936. In 1941, during World War II, a Chechen revolt broke out, led by Khasan Israilov. Chechens were accused by Joseph Stalin of aiding Nazi forces. In February 1944 Stalin deported all the Chechens and Ingush to the Kazakh and Kirghiz SSRs. Up to a quarter of these people died during the "resettlement." [ 25 ] [ 26 ] [ 27 ] In 1957, after the death of Stalin, Nikita Khrushchev allowed the Chechens to return and the Chechen republic was reinstated in 1958, the authority of the Soviet government gradually eroded.
The First Chechen War [ edit ] 
A Russian helicopter downed by Chechen militants near the capital Grozny, during the First Chechen War Main article: First Chechen War 
During the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, Chechnya declared independence. In 1992, Chechen and Ingush leaders signed an agreement splitting the joint ChechenaIngush republic in two, with Ingushetia joining the Russian Federation and Chechnya remaining independent. The debate over independence ultimately led to a small-scale civil war since 1992, in which the Russians supported the opposition forces against Dzhokhar Dudayev. Thousands of people of non-Chechen ethnicity (mostly Russians) fled the Chechen Republic and Chechnya's industrial production began failing after Russian engineers and workers fled or were expelled. The First Chechen War began in 1994, when Russian forces entered Chechnya to "restore constitutional order". Following nearly two years of brutal fighting, in which an estimated tens of thousands to more than 100, 000 people died, and the 1996 Khasavyurt ceasefire agreement, the Russian troops were withdrawn from the republic. [ 28 ] 
Prelude to the Second Chechen War [ edit ] 
Chaos in Chechnya [ edit ] 
Cadets of the Ichkeria Chechen National Guard, 1999 
Following the first war, the separatist government's grip on the chaotic republic was weak, especially outside the ruined capital Grozny. The areas controlled by separatist groups grew larger and the country became increasingly lawless. [ 29 ] The war ravages and lack of economic opportunities left large numbers of heavily armed and brutalized former separatist fighters with no occupation but further violence. The authority of the government in Grozny was opposed by extremist warlords like Arbi Barayev and Salman Raduyev. Abductions and raids into other parts of the Northern Caucasus by various Chechen warlords had been steadily increasing. [ 30 ] In place of the devastated economic structure, kidnapping emerged as the principal source of income countrywide, procuring over $200million during the three-year independence of the chaotic fledgling state. [ 31 ] It has been estimated that up to 1, 300 people were kidnapped in Chechnya between 1996 and 1999, [ 29 ] and in 1998 a group of four Western hostages were murdered. Political violence and religious extremism, in the form of Islamist Wahhabism, was rife as well. In 1998, a state of emergency was declared by the authorities in Grozny. Tensions led to open clashes like the July 1998 confrontation in Gudermes in which some 50 people died in fighting between Chechen National Guard troops and the Islamist militias.
RussianaChechen relations 1996a1999 [ edit ] 
The 1997 election brought to power the separatist president Aslan Maskhadov. In 1998 and 1999 President Maskhadov survived several assassination attempts, [ citation needed ] blamed on the Russian intelligence services. In March 1999 General Gennady Shpigun, the Kremlin's envoy to Chechnya, was kidnapped at the airport in Grozny and ultimately found dead in 2000 during the war.
The political tensions were fueled in part by allegedly Chechen or pro-Chechen terrorist and criminal activity in Russia, as well as border clashes.
Russian plans for the war [ edit ] 
On 7 March 1999 interior minister Sergei Stepashin called for an invasion of Chechnya, in response to the abduction of MVD General Gennady Shpigun. However, Stepashin's plan was overridden by the prime minister, Yevgeny Primakov. [ 32 ] Stepashin later said: [ 33 ] 
The decision to invade Chechnya was made in March 1999... I was prepared for an active intervention. We were planning to be on the north side of the Terek River by AugustaSeptember [of 1999] This [the war] would happen regardless to the bombings in Moscow... Putin did not discover anything new. You can ask him about this. He was the director of FSB at this time and had all the information. [ 34 ] [ 35 ] 
According to Robert Bruce Ware, these plans should be regarded as contingency plans. However, Stepashin did actively call for a military campaign against Chechen separatists in August 1999 when he was the prime minister of Russia. But shortly after his televised interview where he talked about plans to restore constitutional order in Chechnya, he was replaced in the PM's position by Vladimir Putin. [ 36 ] 
Attacks and border clashes [ edit ] 
On 16 November 1996, in Kaspiysk (Dagestan) a bomb destroyed an apartment building housing Russian border guards; 68 people died. The cause of the blast was never determined, but many in Russia blamed it on Chechen separatists. [ 37 ] Three people died on 23 April 1997, when a bomb exploded in the Russian railway station of Armavir (Krasnodar Krai), and two on 28 May 1997, when another bomb exploded in the Russian railway station of Pyatigorsk (Stavropol Krai).
On 22 December 1997, forces of Dagestani militants and Chechnya-based Arab warlord Ibn al-Khattab raided the base of the 136th Motor Rifle Brigade of the Russian Army in Buynaksk, Dagestan, inflicting severe losses on the men [ 38 ] and equipment of the unit. In late May Russia announced that it was closing the Russian-Chechnya border in an attempt to combat attacks and criminal activity; border guards were ordered to shoot suspects on sight. On 18 June 1999, seven servicemen were killed when Russian border guard posts were attacked in Dagestan. On 29 July 1999, the Russian Interior Ministry troops destroyed a Chechen border post and captured an 800 meter-section of strategic road. On 22 August 1999, 10 Russian policemen were killed by an anti-tank mine blast in North Ossetia, and on 9 August 1999 six servicemen were kidnapped in the Ossetian capital Vladikavkaz.
Invasion of Dagestan [ edit ] 
Main article: War of Dagestan 
The Invasion of Dagestan was the trigger for the Second Chechen War. In August and September 1999, Shamil Basayev (in association with the Saudi-born Ibn al-Khattab, Commander of the Mujahedeen) led two armies of up to 2, 000 Chechen, Dagestani, Arab and international mujahideen and Wahhabist militants from Chechnya into the neighboring Republic of Dagestan. This war saw the first (unconfirmed) use of aerial-delivered fuel air explosives (FAE) in mountainous areas, notably in the village of Tando. [ 39 ] By mid-September 1999, the militants were routed from the villages and pushed back into Chechnya. At least several hundred militants were killed in the fighting; the Federal side reported 279 servicemen killed and approximately 900 wounded. [ 18 ] 
Bombings in Russia [ edit ] 
Main article: Russian apartment bombings 
Before the wake of the Dagestani invasion had settled, a series of bombings took place in Russia (in Moscow and in Volgodonsk) and in the Dagestani town of Buynaksk. On 4 September 1999, 62 people died in an apartment building housing members of families of Russian soldiers. Over the next two weeks, the bombs targeted three other apartment buildings and a mall; in total nearly 300 people were killed. Khattab initially claimed responsibility for the bombings, but later denied responsibility. This was followed by an anonymous caller, who said he belonged to a group called the Liberation Army of Dagestan. [ 40 ] There were no other calls or acts by the Liberation Army of Dagestan.
A criminal investigation of the bombings was completed in 2002. The results of the investigation, and the court ruling that followed, concluded that they were organized by Achemez Gochiyaev, who remains at large, and ordered by Khattab and Abu Omar al-Saif (both of whom were later killed), in retaliation for the Russian counteroffensive against their incursion into Dagestan. Six other suspects have been convicted by Russian courts. However, many observers, including State Duma deputies Yuri Shchekochikhin, Sergei Kovalev and Sergei Yushenkov, cast doubts on the official version and sought an independent investigation. Some others, including David Satter, Yury Felshtinsky, Vladimir Pribylovsky and Alexander Litvinenko, as well as the secessionist Chechen authorities, claimed that the 1999 bombings were a false flag attack coordinated by the FSB in order to win public support for a new full-scale war in Chechnya, which boosted Prime Minister and former FSB Director Vladimir Putin's popularity, brought the pro-war Unity Party to the State Duma in the 1999 parliamentary election and him to the presidency within a few months. [ 34 ] [ 41 ] [ 42 ] [ 43 ] [ 44 ] [ 45 ] [ 46 ] [ 47 ] [ 48 ] [ 49 ] The theories' strongest proponents have links with each other as well as with the late Boris Berezovsky, an exiled oligarch who advocated the forcible overthrowing of the Russian Government. [ 50 ] For example, Berezovsky sponsored Litivinenko's book. [ 51 ] [ 52 ] [ 53 ] [ 54 ] [ 55 ] 
Other researchers have criticized the theory, stating that it is a conspiracy theory. The researchers pointed out that the theory's proponents have provided little or no evidence to support the theory. [ 56 ] [ 57 ] [ 58 ] [ 59 ] Gordon Bennett also points out that the decision to send troops to Chechnya was taken by Boris Yeltsin a not Vladimir Putin a with the wholehearted support of all power structures after the Invasion of Dagestan. [ 57 ] 
1999a2000 Russian offensive [ edit ] 
Air war [ edit ] 
v , t , e , . Second Chechen War (Russian offensive 1999a2000) , Russian air bombardment, Elistanzhi cluster bombing, Grozny missile attack, Shami-Yurt bombing, Goity incident, Grozny, Staropromyslovsky massacre, Katyr-Yurt bombing, Novye Aldi massacre, Hill 776, Komsomolskoye, OMON fratricide incident, Zhani-Vedeno, . , Main article: 1999 Russian bombing of Chechnya See also: List of Russian aircraft losses in the Second Chechen War 
In late August and September 1999, Russia mounted a massive air campaign over Chechnya, with the stated aim of wiping out militants who invaded Dagestan the previous month. On 26 August 1999 Russia acknowledged bombing raids in Chechnya. [ 60 ] The Russian air strikes were reported to have forced at least 100, 000 Chechens to flee their homes to safety; the neighbouring region of Ingushetia was reported to have appealed for United Nations aid to deal with tens of thousands of refugees. [ 61 ] On 2 October 1999, Russia's Ministry of Emergency Situations admitted that 78, 000 people have fled the air strikes in Chechnya; most of them were heading for Ingushetia, where they were arriving at a rate of 5, 000 to 6, 000 a day.
As of 22 September 1999 Deputy Interior Minister Igor Zubov said that Russian troops had surrounded Chechnya and were prepared to retake the region, but the military planners were advising against a ground invasion because of the likelihood of heavy Russian casualties. By the end of September Russian forces made repeated incursions onto Chechen soil, and had captured some territory. [ citation needed ] 
Land war [ edit ] 
The Chechen conflict entered a new phase on 1 October 1999, when Russia's new Prime Minister Vladimir Putin declared the authority of Chechen President Aslan Maskhadov and his parliament illegitimate. [ citation needed ] At this time, Putin announced that Russian troops would initiate a land invasion but progress only as far as the Terek River, which cuts the northern third of Chechnya off from the rest of the republic. Putin's stated intention was to take control of Chechnya's northern plain and establish a cordon sanitaire against further Chechen aggression; however, later recalled that the cordon alone was "pointless and technically impossible, " apparently because of Chechnya's rugged terrain. According to Russian accounts, Putin accelerated a plan for a major crackdown against Chechnya that had been drawn up months earlier. [ 62 ] 
The Russian army moved with ease in the wide open spaces of northern Chechnya and on 5 October 1999, reached the Terek River. On this day, a bus filled with refugees was reportedly hit by a Russian tank shell, killing at least 11 civilians; [ 63 ] two days later, Russian Su-24 fighter bombers dropped cluster bombs on the village of Elistanzhi, killing some 35 people. [ 64 ] On 10 October 1999, Maskhadov outlined a peace plan offering a crackdown on renegade warlords; [ 64 ] the offer was rejected by the Russian side. He also appealed to NATO to help end fighting between his forces and Russian troops, without effect. [ 65 ] 
On 12 October 1999, the Russian forces crossed the Terek and began a two-pronged advance on the capital Grozny to the south. Hoping to avoid the significant casualties which plagued the first Chechen War, the Russians advanced slowly and in force, making extensive use of artillery and air power in an attempt to soften Chechen defences. Many thousands of civilians fled the Russian advance, leaving Chechnya for neighbouring Russian republics. Their numbers were later estimated to reach 200, 000 to 350, 000, out of the approximately 800, 000 residents of the Chechen Republic. The Russians appeared to be taking no chances with the Chechen population in its rear areas, setting up "filtration camps" in October in northern Chechnya for detaining suspected members of bandformirovaniya militant formations, literally: "bandit formations".
On 15 October 1999, Russian forces took control of a strategic ridge within artillery range of the Chechen capital Grozny after mounting an intense tank and artillery barrage against Chechen fighters. In response, President Maskhadov declared a gazavat (holy war) to confront the approaching Russian army. Martial law was declared in Ichkeria and reservists were called; but no martial law or state of emergency had been declared in Chechnya or Russia by the Russian government. [ 66 ] The next day, Russian forces captured strategic Tersky Heights within sight of Grozny, dislodging 200 entrenched Chechen fighters. After heavy fighting, Russia seized the Chechen base in the village of Goragorsky, west of the city. [ 67 ] 
On 21 October 1999, a Russian short-range ballistic missile strike on the central Grozny killed more than 140 people, including many women and children, and left hundreds more wounded. A Russian spokesman said the busy market place was targeted because it was used by separatists as an arms bazaar. [ 68 ] Eight days later Russian aircraft carried out a rocket attack on a large convoy of refugees heading into Ingushetia, killing at least 25 civilians including Red Cross workers and journalists. [ 69 ] Two days later the Russian forces conducted a heavy artillery and rocket attack on Samashki. Some claimed that civilians were killed in Samashki in revenge for the heavy casualties suffered there by Russian forces during the first war. [ 70 ] 
On 12 November 1999, the Russian flag was raised over Chechnya's second largest city, Gudermes, when the local Chechen commanders, the Yamadayev brothers, defected to the federal side; the Russians also entered the bombed-out former Cossack village of Assinovskaya. The fighting in and around Kulary continued until January 2000. On 17 November 1999, Russian soldiers dislodged separatists in Bamut, the symbolic separatist stronghold in the first war; dozens of Chechen fighters and many civilians were reported killed, and the village was levelled in the FAE bombing. Two days later, after a failed attempt five days earlier, Russian forces managed to capture the village of Achkhoy-Martan.
On 26 November 1999, Deputy Army Chief of Staff Valery Manilov said that phase two of the Chechnya campaign was just about complete, and a final third phase was about to begin. According to Manilov, the aim of the third phase was to destroy "bandit groups" in the mountains. A few days later Russia's Defense Minister Igor Sergeyev said Russian forces might need up to three more months to complete their military campaign in Chechnya, while some generals said the offensive could be over by New Year's Day. The next day the Chechens briefly recaptured the town of Novogroznensky. [ 71 ] 
On 1 December 1999, after weeks of heavy fighting, Russian forces under Major General Vladimir Shamanov took control of Alkhan-Yurt, a village just south of Grozny. The Chechen and foreign fighters inflicted heavy losses on the Russian forces, reportedly killing more than 70 Russian soldiers before retreating, [ 72 ] suffering heavy losses of their own. [ 73 ] On the same day, Chechen separatist forces began carrying out a series of counter-attacks against federal troops in several villages as well as in the outskirts of Gudermes. Chechen fighters in Argun, a small town five kilometres east of Grozny, put up some of the strongest resistance to federal troops since the start of Moscow's military offensive. [ citation needed ] The separatists in the town of Urus-Martan also offered fierce resistance, employing guerilla tactics Russia had been anxious to avoid; by 9 December 1999, Russian forces were still bombarding Urus-Martan, although Chechen commanders said their fighters had already pulled out. [ citation needed ] 
On 4 December 1999, the commander of Russian forces in the North Caucasus, General Viktor Kazantsev, claimed that Grozny was fully blockaded by Russian troops. The Russian military's next task was the seizure of the town of Shali, 20 kilometres south-east of the capital, one of the last remaining separatist-held towns apart from Grozny. Russian troops started by capturing two bridges that link Shali to the capital, and by 11 December 1999, Russian troops had encircled Shali and were slowly forcing separatists out. By mid-December the Russian military was concentrating attacks in southern parts of Chechnya and preparing to launch another offensive from Dagestan.
Siege of Grozny [ edit ] 
Main article: Battle of Grozny (1999a2000) 
Meanwhile, the assault on Grozny started in early December. The battle accompanied by the struggle for the neighbouring settlements ended when the Russian army seized the city on 2 February 2000.
According to the official Russian figures, at least 368 federal troops and an unknown number of pro-Russian militiamen died in Grozny. The separatist forces too suffered heavy losses, including losing several top commanders. Russian Defense Minister Igor Sergeyev said that 1, 500 separatists were killed trying to leave Grozny. The separatists said they lost at least 400 fighters in the mine field at Alkhan-Kala. [ 74 ] 
The siege and fighting left the capital devastated like no other European city since World War II; in 2003 the United Nations called Grozny the most destroyed city on Earth. [ 75 ] 
The Russians suffered heavy losses also as they advanced elsewhere, and from the series of Chechen counterattacks and convoy ambushes. On 26 January 2000, the Russian government announced that 1, 173 servicemen had been killed in Chechnya since October [ 76 ] a a more than double rise from 544 killed reported just 19 days earlier. [ 77 ] 
Battle for the mountains [ edit ] 
Zhani-Vedeno ambush, March 2000 
Heavy fighting accompanied by a massive shelling and bombing continued through the winter of 2000 in the mountainous south of Chechnya, particularly in the areas around Argun, Vedeno and Shatoy, where the fighting involving Russian paratroopers raged since 1999.
On 9 February 2000 a Russian tactical missile hit a crowd of people who had come to the local administration building in Shali, a town previously declared as one of the "safe areas", to collect their pensions. The attack was a response to a report that a group of fighters had entered the town. The missile is estimated to have killed some 150 civilians, and was followed by an attack by combat helicopters causing further casualties. [ 78 ] Human Rights Watch has called on the Russian military to stop using FAE, known in Russia as "vacuum bombs", in Chechnya, concerned about the large number of civilian casualties caused by what it calls "the widespread and often indiscriminate bombing and shelling by Russian forces". [ 79 ] On 18 February 2000, a Russian army transport helicopter was shot down in the south, killing 15 men aboard, Russian Interior Minister Vladimir Rushailo said in a rare admission by Moscow of losses in the war. [ 80 ] 
On 29 February 2000, United Army Group commander Gennady Troshev said that "the counter-terrorism operation in Chechnya is over. It will take a couple of weeks longer to pick up splinter groups now." Russia's Defense Minister, Marshal of the Russian Federation Igor Sergeyev, evaluated numerical strength of the separatists at between 2, 000 and 2, 500 men, "scattered all over Chechnya." On the same day, a Russian VDV paratroop company from Pskov was attacked by Chechen and Arab fighters near the village of Ulus-Kert in Chechnya's southern lowlands; at least 84 Russian soldiers were killed in the especially heavy fighting. The official newspaper of the Russian Ministry of Defense reported that at least 400 separatists were killed, figures which they said were based on radio-intercept data, intelligence reports, eyewitnesses, local residents and captured Chechens. [ 81 ] On 2 March 2000, a unit of OMON from Podolsk opened fire in Grozny on another OMON unit from Sergiyev Posad; at least 24 Russian servicemen were killed in the incident.
In March a large group of more than 1, 000 Chechen fighters led by field commander Ruslan Gelayev, pursued since their withdrawal from Grozny, entered the village of Komsomolskoye in the Chechen foothills; they held off a full-scale Russian attack on the town for over two weeks, [ citation needed ] but suffered hundreds of casualties in the process; [ citation needed ] the Russians also admitted more than 50 killed. On 29 March 2000, a total of about 52 Russian soldiers were killed as a result of the separatist ambush on the OMON convoy from Perm.
On 23 April 2000, a 22-vehicle convoy carrying ammunition and other supplies to the airborne unit was ambushed near Serzhen-Yurt in the Vedeno Gorge, by an estimated 80 to 100 "bandits" according to General Troshev; in the ensuing 4-hour battle the federal side lost 15 government soldiers, according to the Russian defence minister. General Troshev told the press that the bodies of four separatist fighters were found. The Russian Airborne Troops headquarters later stated that 20 separatists were killed and 2 taken prisoner. [ 82 ] Soon, the Russian forces seized last populated centres of the organized resistance. (Another offensive against the remaining mountain strongholds was launched by the Russian forces in December 2000.)
Restoration of federal government [ edit ] 
Main article: Federal government in Chechnya 
Russian President Vladimir Putin established direct rule of Chechnya in May 2000. The following month, Putin appointed Akhmad Kadyrov interim head of the pro-Moscow government. This development met with early approval in the rest of Russia, but the continued deaths of Russian troops dampened public enthusiasm. On 23 March 2003, a new Chechen constitution was passed in a referendum. The 2003 Constitution granted the Chechen Republic a significant degree of autonomy, but still tied it firmly to Russia and Moscow's rule, and went into force on 2 April 2003. The referendum was strongly supported by the Russian government but met a harsh critical response from Chechen separatists; many citizens chose to boycott the ballot. [ citation needed ] Akhmad Kadyrov was assassinated by a bomb blast in 2004. Since December 2005, his son Ramzan Kadyrov, leader of the pro-Moscow militia known as kadyrovtsy , has been functioning as the Chechnya's de facto ruler. Kadyrov has become Chechnya's most powerful leader and in February 2007, with support from Putin, Ramzan Kadyrov replaced Alu Alkhanov as president.
Insurgency [ edit ] 
v , t , e , . Second Chechen War (guerrilla phase) , Insurgency since May 2000 , . Galashki, 1st suicide bombings, 2nd suicide bombings, Alkhan-Kala, Vedeno, 1st Grozny crash, Tsotsin-Yurt, Shelkovskaya crash, 2nd Grozny, Khankala crash, Grozny truck bomb, Znamenskoye suicide bombing, Nazran, 1st Avtury, 4th Grozny, Dagestan sieges, Borozdinovskaya, Makhachkala bombing, Nalchik, Gimry, 2nd Avtury, Vladikavkaz crash, Border incident, Shatoy crash, Zhani-Vedeno, . , Guerrilla war in Chechnya [ edit ] 
Main article: Guerrilla phase of the Second Chechen War Guerrilla phase by year: 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 
Although large-scale fighting within Chechnya had ceased, daily attacks continued particularly in the southern portions of Chechnya, spilling into nearby territories of the Caucasus as well, especially since the Caucasus Front was established. Typically small separatist units target Russian and pro-Russian officials, security forces, and military and police convoys and vehicles. The separatist units employ IEDs and sometimes group up for larger raids. Russian forces then retaliate with artillery and air strikes, as well as counter-insurgency operations. Most soldiers in Chechnya are now kontraktniki (contract soldiers) as opposed to the earlier conscripts. While Russia continues to maintain military presence within Chechnya, Russia's federal forces play less of a direct role in Chechnya. Pro-Kremlin Chechen forces under the command of the local strongman Ramzan Kadyrov, known as the kadyrovtsy now dominate law enforcement and security operations, with many members (including Kadyrov himself) being former Chechen separatists who have defected since 1999. Since 2004, the Kadyrovtsy were partly incorporated into two Interior Ministry units North and South ( Sever and Yug ). Two other units of the Chechen pro-Moscow forces, East and West ( Vostok and Zapad ), are commanded by Sulim Yamadayev ( Vostok ) and Said-Magomed Kakiyev ( Zapad ) and their men. [ 83 ] 
On 16 April 2009 the head of the Federal Security Service, Alexander Bortnikov, announced that they "cancelled the decree imposing an anti-terror operation on the territory of, effective from midnight". According to Chechen President Ramzan Kadyrov the announcement means that the war is finished by their victory. Still while Chechnya has largely stabilised, there are clashes with militants in the nearby regions of Dagestan and Ingushetia. [ 84 ] 
Suicide attacks [ edit ] 
Main article: Chechen suicide attacks 
Between June 2000 and September 2004 Chechen insurgents added suicide attacks to their tactics. During this period there have been 23 Chechen related suicide attacks in and outside Chechnya. The profiles of the Chechen suicide bombers have varied just as much as the circumstances surrounding the bombings, most of which targeted military or government-related targets.
Assassinations [ edit ] 
Main article: List of Second Chechen War assassinations 
Both sides of the war carried out multiple assassinations. The most prominent of these included the 13 February 2004 killing of exiled former separatist Chechen President Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev in Qatar, and the 9 May 2004 killing of pro-Russian Chechen President Akhmad Kadyrov during the parade in Grozny.
Caucasus Front [ edit ] 
Main article: Caucasian Front (Chechen War) 
While the anti-Russian local insurgencies in the North Caucasus started even before the war, in May 2005, two months after Maskahdov's death, the Chechen separatists officially announced that they had formed a Caucasus Front within the framework of "reforming the system of militaryapolitical power." Along with the Chechen, Dagestani and Ingush "sectors, " the Stavropol, Kabardin-Balkar, Krasnodar, Karachai-Circassian, Ossetian and Adyghe jamaats were included in it. This, in essence, means that practically all the regions of the Russia's south are involved in the hostilities.
The Chechen separatist movement has taken on a new role as the official ideological, logistical and, probably, financial hub of the new insurgency in the North Caucasus. [ 85 ] Increasingly frequent clashes between federal forces and local militants continue in Dagestan, while sporadic fighting erupts in the other southern Russia regions, most notably in Ingushetia, but also elsewhere, notably in Nalchik on 13 October 2005.
Human rights and terrorism [ edit ] 
Main article: Second Chechen War crimes and terrorism 
Human rights and war crimes [ edit ] 
v , t , e , . Attacks on civilians during
the Second Chechen War , Samashki, Elistanzhi, Grozny, Shami-Yurt, Goity, Alkhan-Yurt, Staropromyslovski, Novye Aldi, Katyr-Yurt, Tsotsin-Yurt, Borozdinovskaya, . , A mass grave in Chechnya 
Russian officials and Chechen separatists have regularly and repeatedly accused the opposing side of committing various war crimes including kidnapping, murder, hostage taking, looting, rape, and assorted other breaches of the laws of war. International and humanitarian organizations, including the Council of Europe and Amnesty International, have criticized both sides of the conflict for "blatant and sustained" violations of international humanitarian law.
Western European rights groups estimate there have been about 5, 000 forced disappearances in Chechnya since 1999. [ 86 ] 
American Secretary of State Madeleine Albright noted in her 24 March 2000, speech to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights:
We cannot ignore the fact that thousands of Chechen civilians have died and more than 200, 000 have been driven from their homes. Together with other delegations, we have expressed our alarm at the persistent, credible reports of human rights violations by Russian forces in Chechnya, including extrajudicial killings. There are also reports that Chechen separatists have committed abuses, including the killing of civilians and prisoners.... The war in Chechnya has greatly damaged Russia's international standing and is isolating Russia from the international community. Russia's work to repair that damage, both at home and abroad, or its choice to risk further isolating itself, is the most immediate and momentous challenge that Russia faces. [ 87 ] 
According to the 2001 annual report by Amnesty International:
There were frequent reports that Russian forces indiscriminately bombed and shelled civilian areas. Chechen civilians, including medical personnel, continued to be the target of military attacks by Russian forces. Hundreds of Chechen civilians and prisoners of war were extra judicially executed. Journalists and independent monitors continued to be refused access to Chechnya. According to reports, Chechen fighters frequently threatened, and in some cases killed, members of the Russian-appointed civilian administration and executed Russian captured soldiers. [ 88 ] 
In 2001 the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum has placed Chechnya on its Genocide Watch List:
Chechnya was devastated, including the almost complete destruction of Grozny, the Chechen capital. Russian artillery and air indiscriminately pounded populated areas. Human rights organizations also documented several massacres of civilians by Russian units. Russian President Vladimir Putin proclaimed Chechnya pacified by Spring 2000. But peace has been elusive for Chechen civilians, victims of a continuing war of attrition. They are plagued by abuses committed by Russian forces a arbitrary arrest, extortion, torture, murder. Chechen civilians also suffer because there have been no sustained efforts to rebuild basic social services, such as public utilities or education. Chechen fighters also commit abuses against civilians, but neither on the same scale nor with the same intensity as Russian forces. [ citation needed ] 
The Russian government failed to pursue any accountability process for human rights abuses committed during the course of the conflict in Chechnya. Unable to secure justice domestically, hundreds of victims of abuse have filed applications with the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR). In March 2005 the court issued the first rulings on Chechnya, finding the Russian government guilty of violating the right to life and even if the prohibition of torture with respect to civilians who had died or forcibly disappeared at the hands of Russia's federal troops. [ 89 ] Many similar claims were ruled since against Russia.
Dozens of mass graves containing hundreds of corpses have been uncovered since the beginning of the Chechen wars in 1994. As of June 2008, there were 57 registered locations of mass graves in Chechnya. [ 90 ] According to Amnesty International, thousands may be buried in unmarked graves including up to 5, 000 civilians who disappeared since the beginning of the Second Chechen War in 1999. [ 91 ] In 2008, the largest mass grave found to date was uncovered in Grozny, containing some 800 bodies from the First Chechen War in 1995. [ 90 ] Russia's general policy to the Chechen mass graves is to not exhume them. [ 92 ] 
Photos of the victims of the 2004 Beslan school hostage crisis 
Terrorist attacks [ edit ] 
v , t , e , . Terrorist attacks and suicide bombings in Russia , Bold indicates incidents resulting in over 50 deaths.
Incidents are bombings unless described otherwise. , 1995 Budyonnovsk hospital crisis , . , 1996 Kizlyar-Pervomayskoye hostage crisis , . , 1999 Vladikavkaz , Apartment bombings , . , 2002 Kaspiysk, Moscow theater crisis , Grozny , . , 2003 Znamenskoye , Tushino, Stavropol, Red Square, . , 2004 Moscow Metro (1st), Grozny Dynamo stadium, Moscow Metro (2nd), Aircraft bombings , Beslan school crisis , . , 2006 Moscow (Cherkizovsky Market), . , 2008 Vladikavkaz, . , 2009 Nazran, Nevsky Express, . , 2010 Moscow Metro, Kizlyar, Stavropol, Tsentoroy, Vladikavkaz, Grozny, . , 2011 Domodedovo Airport, . , 2012 Makhachkala, . , 2013 Volgograd (October), Volgograd (December), . , 2014 Grozny, . , Part of the: First Chechen War, War of Dagestan, Second Chechen War , North Caucasus insurgency, . , Between May 2002 and September 2004, the Chechen and Chechen-led militants, mostly answering to Shamil Basayev, launched a campaign of terrorism directed against civilian targets in Russia. About 200 people were killed in a series of bombings (most of them suicide attacks), most of them in the 2003 Stavropol train bombing (46), the 2004 Moscow metro bombing (40), and the 2004 Russian aircraft bombings (89).
Two large-scale hostage takings, the 2002 Moscow theater hostage crisis (916 hostages) and the 2004 Beslan school siege (about 1, 120), resulted in the deaths of hundreds of civilians. In the Moscow stand-off, FSB Spetsnaz forces stormed the buildings on the third day using a lethal chemical agent. Some 20 Beslan hostages had been executed by their captors before the storming.
Other issues [ edit ] 
Pankisi crisis [ edit ] 
Main articles: GeorgiaaRussia relations and 2001 Kodori crisis 
Russian officials have accused the bordering republic of Georgia of allowing Chechen separatists to operate on Georgian territory and permitting the flow of militants and materiel across the Georgian border with Russia. In February 2002, the United States began offering assistance to Georgia in combating "criminal elements" as well as alleged Arab mujahideen activity in Pankisi Gorge as part of the War on Terrorism. Without resistance, Georgian troops have detained an Arab man and six criminals, and declared the region under control. [ 93 ] In August 2002, Georgia accused Russia of a series of secret air strikes on purported separatists havens in the Pankisi Gorge in which a Georgian civilian was reported killed.
On 8 October 2001, a UNOMIG helicopter was shot down in Georgia in Kodori Valley gorge near Abkhazia, amid fighting between Chechens and Abkhazians, killing nine including five UN observers. [ 94 ] Georgia denied having troops in the area, and the suspicion fell on the armed group headed by Chechen warlord Ruslan Gelayev, who was speculated to have been hired by the Georgian government to wage proxy war against separatist Abkhazia. On 2 March 2004, following a number of cross-border raids from Georgia into Chechnya, Ingushetia, and Dagestan, Gelayev was killed in a clash with Russian border guards while trying to get back from Dagestan into Georgia.
Unilateral ceasefire of 2005 [ edit ] 
On 2 February 2005, Chechen separatist president Aslan Maskhadov issued a call for a ceasefire lasting until at least 22 February (the day preceding the anniversary of Stalin's deportation of the Chechen population). The call was issued through a separatist website and addressed to President Putin, described as a gesture of goodwill. On 8 March 2005, Maskhadov was killed in an operation by Russian security forces in the Chechen community of Tolstoy-Yurt, northeast of Grozny.
Shortly following Maskhadov's death, the Chechen separatist council announced that Abdul-Khalim Sadulayev had assumed the leadership, a move that was quickly endorsed by Shamil Basayev (Basayev himself died in July 2006). On 2 February 2006, Sadulayev made large-scale changes in his government, ordering all its members to move into Chechen territory. Among other things, he removed First Vice-Premier Akhmed Zakayev from his post (although later Zakayev was appointed a Foreign Minister [ 95 ] ). Sadulayev was killed in June 2006, after which he was succeeded as the separatist leader by the veteran terrorist commander Doku Umarov.
Amnesties [ edit ] 
As of November 2007, there were at least seven amnesties for separatist militants, as well as federal servicemen who committed crimes, declared in Chechnya by Moscow since the start of the second war. The first one was announced in 1999 when about 400 Chechen switched sides. (However, according to Putin's advisor and aide Aslambek Aslakhanov most of them were since killed, both by their former comrades and by the Russians, who by then perceived them as a potential "fifth column". [ 96 ] ) Some of the other amnesties included one during September 2003 in connection with the adoption of the republic's new constitution, and then another between mid-2006 and January 2007. According to Ramzan Kadyrov, himself former separatist, more than 7, 000 separatist fighters defected to the federal side ("returned to the peaceful life") by 2005. In 2006 more than 600 militants in Chechnya and adjacent provinces reportedly surrendered their arms in response to a six-month amnesty "for those not involved in any serious crimes". [ 97 ] In 2007, the International Helsinki Federation for Human Rights published a report entitled Amnestied People as Targets for Persecution in Chechnya, which documents the fate of several persons who have been amnestied and subsequently abducted, tortured and killed.
Government censorship of the media coverage [ edit ] 
Main article: Russian censorship of Chechnya coverage 
, This section's factual accuracy is disputed . (April 2008) , The first war, with its extensive and largely unrestricted coverage (despite deaths of many journalists), convinced the Kremlin more than any other event that it needed to control national television channels, which most Russians rely on for news, to successfully undertake any major national policy. By the time the second war began, federal authorities had designed and introduced a comprehensive system to limit the access of journalists to Chechnya and shape their coverage. [ 98 ] 
The Russian government's control of all Russian television stations and its use of repressive rules, harassment, censorship, intimidation [ 99 ] and attacks on journalists almost completely deprived the Russian public of the independent information on the conflict. Practically all the local Chechen media are under total control of the pro-Moscow government, Russian journalists in Chechnya face intense harassment and obstruction [ 100 ] leading to widespread self-censorship, while foreign journalists and media outlets too are pressured into censoring their reports on the conflict. [ 101 ] In some cases Russian journalists reporting on Chechnya were jailed (Boris Stomakhin) or kidnapped by the federal forces (Andrei Babitsky), and foreign media outlets (American Broadcasting Company) banned from Russia. [ 102 ] The Russian-Chechen Friendship Society was shut down on "extremism and national hatred" charges. According to a 2007 poll only 11 percent of Russians said they were happy with media coverage of Chechnya. [ 103 ] 
Effects [ edit ] 
Civilian losses [ edit ] 
Main article: Casualties of the Second Chechen War 
Civilian casualty estimates vary widely. According to the pro-Moscow government, 160, 000 combatants and non-combatants died or have gone missing in the two wars, including 30, 000a40, 000 Chechens and about 100, 000 Russians; [ 104 ] [ 105 ] while separatist leader Aslan Maskhadov (deceased) repeatedly claimed about 200, 000 ethnic Chechens died as a consequence of the two conflicts. [ 106 ] As in the case of military losses, these claims can not be independently verified. According to a count by the Russian human rights group Memorial in 2007, up to 25, 000 civilians have died or disappeared since 1999. [ 107 ] According to Amnesty International in 2007, the second war killed up to 25, 000 civilians since 1999, with up to another 5, 000 people missing. [ 108 ] However, the Russian-Chechen Friendship Society set their estimate of the total death toll in two wars at about 150, 000 to 200, 000 civilians. [ 109 ] 
Environmental damage [ edit ] 
Environmental agencies warn that the Russian republic of Chechnya, devastated by war, now faces ecological disaster. A former aide to Boris Yeltsin believes Russian bombing has rendered Chechnya an "environmental wasteland." [ 110 ] There is a special concern over widespread oil spills and pollution from sewers damaged by war (the water is polluted to a depth of 250 m [ 111 ] ), and chemical and radioactive pollution, as a result of the bombardment of chemical facilities and storages during the conflict. [ 112 ] Chechnya's wildlife also sustained heavy damage during the hostilities, as animals that had once populated the Chechen forests have moved off to seek safer ground. [ 113 ] In 2004, Russian government has designated one-third of Chechnya a "zone of ecological disaster" and another 40a zone of extreme environmental distress". [ 114 ] 
Land mines [ edit ] 
Main article: Land mine situation in Chechnya 
Chechnya is the most land mine-affected region worldwide. [ 115 ] Since 1994 there have been widespread use of mines, by both sides (Russia is a party to the 1980 Convention on Conventional Weapons but not the 1996 protocol on land mines and other devices). The most heavily mined areas of Chechnya are those in which separatists continue to put up resistance, namely the southern regions, as well as the borders of the republic. [ 116 ] No humanitarian mine clearance has taken place since the HALO Trust was evicted by Russia in December 1999. In June 2002, Olara Otunnu, the UN official, estimated that there were 500, 000 land mines placed in the region. UNICEF has recorded 2, 340 civilian land mine and unexploded ordnance casualties occurring in Chechnya between 1999 and the end of 2003.
Military losses [ edit ] 
Main article: Casualties of the Second Chechen War 
Military casualty figures from both sides are impossible to verify and are generally believed to be higher. In September 2000, the National Endowment for Democracy compiled the list of casualties officially announced in the first year of the conflict, which, although incomplete and with little factual value, provide a minimum insight in the information war. According to the figures released by the Russian Ministry of Defence on in August 2005, at least 3, 450 Russian Armed Forces soldiers have been killed in action 1999a2005. [ 117 ] This death toll did not include losses of Internal Troops, the FSB, police and local paramilitaries, all of whom at least 4, 720 were killed by October 2003. [ 109 ] The independent Russian and Western estimates are much higher; the Union of the Committees of Soldiers' Mothers of Russia for instance estimated about 11, 000 Russian Army servicemen have been killed between 1999 and 2003. [ 107 ] 
Political radicalization of the separatist movement [ edit ] 
The Chechens had become increasingly radicalized. Former Soviet Army officers Dzhokhar Dudayev and Aslan Maskhadov have been succeeded by people who rely more on religious ideology, rather than the nationalistic feelings of the population. While Dudayev and Maskhadov were seeking from Moscow recognition of the independence of the Chechen Republic Ichkeria, other leaders spoke out more about the need to expel Russia from the territory of the whole North Caucasus, an impoverished mountain region inhabited mostly by Muslim, non-Russian ethnic groups. [ citation needed ] 
In April 2006, asked whether negotiations with Russians are possible, the top separatist commander Doku Umarov answered: "We offered them many times. But it turned out that we constantly press for negotiations and it's as if we are always standing with an extended hand and this is taken as a sign of our weakness. Therefore we don't plan to do this any more." In the same month, the new separatist spokesman Movladi Udugov said that attacks should be expected anywhere in Russia: "Today, we have a different task on our hands a total war, war everywhere our enemy can be reached. (...) And this means mounting attacks at any place, not just in the Caucasus but in all Russia." Reflecting growing radicalization of the Chechen-led militants, Udugov said their goal was no longer Western-style democracy and independence, but the Islamist "North Caucasian Emirate". [ citation needed ] 
This trend ultimately resulted in the October 2007 declaration of Caucasus Emirate by Doku Umarov where he also urged for a global Jihad, and the political schism between the moderates, and the radical Islamists fighting in Chechnya and the neighbouring regions with ties in the Middle East. [ 118 ] Some commanders, still fighting along with Doku Umarov, like Anzor Astemirov, have publicly denounced the idea of a global Jihad, but keep fighting for the independence of Caucasus states. [ 119 ] 
The struggle has garnered support from Muslim sympathizers around the world nonetheless, and some of them have been willing to take up arms. Many commentators think it is likely that Chechen fighters have links with international Islamist separatist groups. The BBC said in an online Q and A on the conflict: "It has been known for years that Muslim volunteers have traveled to Chechnya to join the fight, reportedly after attending training camps in Afghanistan or Pakistan." [ 107 ] Projecting back from the post-9/11 period, some have linked Chechen resistance to Russia to the Al-Qaida global jihad movement. However, the number of foreign jihad fighters in Chechnya was at most in the hundreds. [ 120 ] 
Impact on the Chechen population [ edit ] 
According to a 2006 report by MAdecins Sans FrontiAres, "the majority of Chechens still struggle through lives burdened by fear, uncertainty and poverty." A survey conducted by MSF in September 2005 showed that 77f the respondents were suffering from "discernible symptoms of psychological distress". [ 121 ] 
As of 2008, the infant mortality rate stood at 17 per 1, 000, the highest in Russia; [ 122 ] There are reports of growing a number of genetic disorders in babies and unexplained illnesses among school children. [ 112 ] One child in 10 is born with some kind of anomaly that requires treatment. Some children whose parents can afford it are sent to the neighbouring republic of Dagestan, where treatment is better; Chechnya lacks sufficient medical equipment in most of its medical facilities. [ 123 ] According to the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), since 1994 to 2008 about 25, 000 children in Chechnya have lost one or both parents. [ 124 ] A whole generation of Chechen children is showing symptoms of psychological trauma. In 2006, Chechnya's pro-Moscow deputy health minister, said the Chechen children had become "living specimens" of what it means to grow up with the constant threat of violence and chronic poverty. [ 125 ] In 2007, the Chechen interior ministry has identified 1, 000 street children involved in vagrancy; the number was increasing. [ 126 ] [ 127 ] 
According to official statistics, Chechnya's unemployment rate in August 2009 was 32.9Although the second highest among Russian regions, the unemployment rate has almost halved since 2007. [ 128 ] [ 129 ] Many people remain homeless because so much of Chechnya's housing was destroyed by the Russian federal forces and many people have not yet been given compensation. [ 130 ] Not only the social (such as housing and hospitals) and economic infrastructure but also the foundations of culture and education, including most of educational and cultural institutions, were destroyed over the course of the two wars in Chechnya. [ 131 ] However ongoing reconstruction efforts have been rebuilding the region at a quick pace over the past few years, including new housing, facilities, paved roads and traffic lights, a new mosque and restoration of electricity to much of the region. [ 132 ] Governmental, social and commercial life remain hobbled by bribery, kidnapping, extortion and other criminal activity; reports by the Russian government estimate that the organized crime sector is twice the Russian average and the government is widely perceived to be corrupt and unresponsive. [ 133 ] 
Hundreds of thousands of Chechens were displaced by the conflict, including 300, 000 at the height of the conflict in 2000. [ 107 ] Most of them were displaced internally in Chechnya and in neighbouring republic of Ingushetia, but thousands of refugees also went into exile, as of 2008 most of them residing in the European Union countries.
Impact on the Russian population [ edit ] 
See also: Human rights in Russia and Racism in Russia 
The start of the war bolstered the domestic popularity of Vladimir Putin as the campaign was started one month after he had become Russian prime minister. [ 103 ] The conflict greatly contributed to the deep changes in the Russian politics and society. [ 134 ] 
Since the Chechen conflict began in 1994, cases of young veterans returning embittered and traumatized to their home towns have been reported all across Russia. Psychiatrists, law-enforcement officials and journalists have started calling the condition of psychologically scarred soldiers "Chechen syndrome" (CS), drawing a parallel with the post-traumatic stress disorders suffered by Soviet soldiers who fought in Afghanistan. According to Yuri Alexandrovsky, deputy director of the Moscow Serbsky Institute in 2003, at least 70f the estimated 1.5million Chechnya veterans suffered CS. [ 135 ] Many of the veterans came back alcoholic, unemployable and antisocial. [ 134 ] Thousands were also physically disabled for life and left with very limited help from the government. [ 136 ] 
According to the 2007 study by Memorial and Demos human rights organisations, Russian policemen lose their qualifications and professional skills during their duty tours in Chechnya. [ 137 ] This conflict was linked to the rising brutality and general criminalisation of the Russian police forces. According to human rights activists and journalists, tens of thousands of police and security forces that have been to Chechnya learned patterns of brutality and impunity and brought them to their home regions, often returning with disciplinary and psychological problems. Reliable numbers on police brutality are hard to come by, but in a statement released in 2006, the internal affairs department of Russia's Interior Ministry said that the number of recorded crimes committed by police officers rose 46.8n 2005. In one nationwide poll in 2005, 71f respondents said they didn't trust their police at all; in another, 41ussians said they lived in fear of police violence. [ 138 ] [ 139 ] According to Amnesty International, torture of detainees in Russia is now endemic. [ 134 ] Since 2007, police officers from outside Caucasus are now not only being sent to Chechnya, but to all the region's republics. [ 137 ] 
The wars in Chechnya, and the associated Caucasian terrorism in Russia, were a major factor in the growth of intolerance, xenophobia and racist violence in Russia, directed in a great part against the people from Caucasus. [ 134 ] The Russian authorities were unlikely to label random attacks on people of non-Russian ethnicity as racist, preferring calling it "hooliganism". [ citation needed ] The number of murders officially classified as racist more than doubled in Russia between 2003 and 2004. The violence included acts of terrorism such as the 2006 Moscow market bombing which killed 13 people. [ 140 ] [ 141 ] In 2007, 18-year old Artur Ryno claimed responsibility for 37 racially motivated murders in the course of one year, saying that "since school [he] hated people from the Caucasus." [ 142 ] On 5 June 2007, an anti-Chechen riot involving hundreds of people took place in the town of Stavropol in southern Russia. Rioters demanded the eviction of ethnic Chechens following the murder of two young Russians who locals believed were killed by Chechens. The event revived memories of a recent clash between Chechens and local Russians in Kondopoga over an unpaid bill, when two Russians were killed. [ 143 ] The Caucasians also face ethnic-related violence in the ranks of Russian Army. [ 144 ] 
Status [ edit ] 
In 2005 there were about 60, 000 Federal troops in Chechnya, but that number has since decreased significantly. Tony Wood, a journalist and author who has written extensively about Chechnya, estimated there were about 8, 000 local security forces remaining in the region as of 2007 [update] . Independent analysts say there are no more than 2, 000 armed separatist combatants still fighting, while Russia says only a few hundred remain. There is still some sporadic fighting in the mountains and south of the republic, but Russia has scaled down its presence significantly leaving the local government to stabilize things further. [ 107 ] In February 2008 the President of the separatist Chechen Republic of Ichkeria, Dokka Umarov, spoke of "thousands of fighters" when he addressed a speech to all his fighters in the mountains. [ 145 ] 
Most of the more prominent past Chechen separatist leaders have died or have been killed, including former president Aslan Maskhadov and leading warlord and terrorist attack mastermind Shamil Basayev. Meanwhile, the fortunes of the Chechen independence movement sagged, plagued by the internal disunity between Chechen moderates and Islamist radicals and the changing global political climate after 11 September 2001, as well as the general war-weariness of the Chechen population. Large-scale fighting has been replaced by guerrilla warfare and bombings targeting federal troops and forces of the regional government, with the violence often spilling over into adjacent regions. Since 2005, the insurgency has largely shifted out of Chechnya proper and into the nearby Russian territories, such as Ingushetia and Dagestan; the Russian government, for its part, has focused on the stabilization of the North Caucasus.
Throughout the years Russian officials have often announced that the war is over. In April 2002 President Vladimir Putin's declared that the war in Chechnya was over. [ 146 ] The Russian government maintains the conflict officially ended in April 2002, [ 146 ] [ 147 ] and since then has continued largely as a peacekeeping operation.
In a 10 July 2006, interview with the BBC, Sergei Ivanov, Russia's thenaprime minister and former minister of defense, said that "the war is over, " and that "the military campaign lasted only 2 years." [ 148 ] 
Ramzan Kadyrov, the current president of the Chechnya, has also stated the war is over. [ 149 ] Others believe the war ended in 2003 with the passage of a Moscow-backed constitutional referendum and the election of pro-Moscow president Akhmad Kadyrov, while some consider the conflict on-going. [ 150 ] Some independent observers, including Alvaro Gil-Robles, the human rights envoy for the Council of Europe, and Louise Arbour, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, have said that the war has largely concluded as of 2006. [ 151 ] [ 152 ] 
The separatists, however, deny that the war is over, and guerrilla warfare continues throughout the entire North Caucasus. Colonel Sulim Yamadayev, Chechnya's second most powerful loyalist warlord after Kadyrov, also denies that the war is over. In March 2007, Yamadayev claimed there were well over 1, 000 separatists and foreign Islamic militants entrenched in the mountains of Chechnya alone: "The war is not over, the war is far from being over. What we are facing now is basically a classic partisan war and my prognosis is that it will last two, three, maybe even five more years." [ 153 ] According to the Central Intelligence Agency factbook, Russia has severely disabled the Chechen separatist movement, although sporadic violence still occurs throughout the North Caucasus. [ 154 ] The overall security situation in Chechnya remains exceedingly difficult to accurately report due to the near monopoly the Russian government has on media covering the issue. [ 155 ] In May 2007 Amnesty International refuted claims by the government that the conflict has ended, stating "while large-scale military operations have been reduced, the conflict continues." [ 156 ] The strength of the separatists has for many years been unknown. Although Russia has killed a lot of separatists throughout the war, many young fighters have joined the separatists. [ 157 ] 
An estimation, based on the war reports, shows that in the past three years Federal casualties are higher than the amount of coalition casualties of the War in Afghanistan (2001apresent). [ 158 ] [ 159 ] [ 160 ] With the abolition of the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria and the proclamation of the Caucasus Emirate by the president of the separatist movement Dokka Umarov, the conflict in Chechnya and the rest of the North Caucasus is often referred to as the "War in the North Caucasus". The Russian government has given no new name to the conflict while most international observers still refer to it as a continuation of the Second Chechen War. [ 161 ] 
Dmitry Medvedev meets with Alexander Bortnikov on 27 March 2009 to discuss the ending of counter-terrorism operations in Chechnya. 
In late April 2008, the Human Rights Commissioner for the Council of Europe, Thomas Hammarberg, visited Russia's Caucasian republics. After wrapping up the week long visit, he said he observed a number of positive developments in Chechnya, and that there was "obvious progress". He also noted that the judicial system in Chechnya was functioning properly. According to Hammarberg, missing people and the identification of missing bodies were still the two biggest human rights issues in the region, and he expressed his wish that further efforts be done to clarify the issue. President Putin responded to his comments, saying that the visit was of "great significance", and that Russia will take into account what the council had to say. [ 162 ] [ 163 ] [ 164 ] 
Counter-insurgency operations have been conducted by Russian army in Chechnya since 1999. President of Chechnya, and former separatist, Ramzan Kadyrov declared this phase to end in March 2009. [ 165 ] On 27 March 2009, President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev met with Alexander Bortnikov, the Director of the Federal Security Service to discuss the official ending of counter-terrorism operations in Chechnya. Medvedev directed the National Anti-Terrorism Committee, which Bortnikov also heads, to report to the Russian government on this issue, which will then be decided by the Russian parliament. [ 166 ] However Medvedev asserted that situation in Chechnya must remain under direct control of the FSB. Close to 480 active insurgents are currently fighting in the mountains under leadership of field commander Doku Umarov according to official data. [ 167 ] 
On 16 April 2009 the counter-terrorism operation in Chechnya was officially ended. [ 1 ] 
People of the Second Chechen War [ edit ] 
Russian political leaders and commanders [ edit ] 
President of Russia (in chronological order) Boris Yeltsin (died 2007), Vladimir Putin (Prime Minister from 2008) Chiefs of the FSB, the GRU, and the General Staff of the Armed Forces Nikolai Patrushev a Valentin Korabelnikov a Anatoly Kvashnin, Yuri Baluyevsky Commander of the Joint Group of Forces in the North Caucasus (in chronological order) Vladimir Moltenskoy, Sergey Makarov, Valery Baranov (maimed 2004), Yakov Nedobitko Commander of the North Caucasus Military District (in chronological order) Viktor Kazantsev, Gennady Troshev, Vladimir Boldyrev, Alexander Baranov Defence Minister of the Russian Federation (in chronological order) Igor Sergeyev, Sergei Ivanov, Anatoliy Serdyukov Interior Minister of Russia (in chronological order) Vladimir Rushailo, Boris Gryzlov, Rashid Nurgaliyev Military commandant of Chechnya Yevgeniy Abrashin, Ivan Babichev, Grigory Fomenko, Leonid Krivonos President of the Chechen Republic (in chronological order) Akhmad Kadyrov (assassinated 2004), Alu Alkhanov, Ramzan Kadyrov Pro-Russian Chechen commanders and politicians Salman Abuyev (assassinated 2001), Artur Akhmadov, Ruslan Alkhanov, Abu Arsanukayev, Aslambek Aslakhanov, Movladi Baisarov (assassinated 2006), Shamil Burayev, Zina Batyzheva, Odes Baysultanov, Alimbek Delimkhanov, Adam Demilkhanov, Adam Deniyev (assassinated 2000), Rudnik Dudayev a, Taus Dzhabrailov, Bislan Gantamirov, Musa Gazimagomadov (died 2003), Hussein Isayev (assassinated 2004), Idris Gaibov, Muslim Ilyasov, Zelimkhan Kadyrov (died 2004), Said-Magomed Kakiyev, Nusreda Khabuseyeva a, Magomed Khambiyev, Ibragim Khultygov, Rezvan Kutsuyev, Supyan Makhchayev, Malik Saidullayev, Sultan Satuyev, Movsar Temirbayev, Raybek Tovzayev (killed 2001), Ruslan Tsakayev (died 2003), Said-Selim Tsuyev, Dzhabrail Yamadayev (assassinated 2003), Khalid Yamadayev, Ruslan Yamadayev, Sulim Yamadayev, Alambek Yasayev, Aud Yusupov a, Akhmad Zavgayev (assassinated 2002), and others Russian commanders and politicians Sergei Abramov, Mukhu Aliyev, Aslambek Aslakhanov, Mikhail Babich, Viktor Barsukov, Aleksandr Bespalov, Yuri Budanov (imprisoned 2003a2009, assassinated 2011), Boris Fadeyev, Gaidar Gadzhiyev (assassinated 2001), Magomed Gazimagomedov, Nikolai Goridov (assassinated 2002), Aleksandr Kayak (assassinated 2005), Oleg Khotin, Alexander Kolmakov, Dzhabrail Kostoyev (assassinated 2006), Abukar Kostoyev (killed 2004), Anatoly Kyarov (assassinated 2008), Alexander Lentsov, Adilgerei Magomedtagirov, Magomedali Magomedov, Ibragim Malsagov, Mikhail Malofeyev (killed 2000), Valery Manilov, Mark Metsayev a, Magomed Omarov (assassinated 2005), Boris Podoprigora, Aleksandr Potapov, Anatoly Pozdnyakov (assassinated 2001), Mikhail Rudchenko (assassinated 2002), Yan Sergunin (assassinated 2004), Vladimir Shamanov, Igor Shifrin (assassinated 2002), Georgy Shpak, German Ugryumov (died 2001), Pavel Varfolomeyev (assassinated 2001), Sergei Yastrzhembsky, Sergei Zveryev (assassinated 2000), Murat Zyazikov, and others 
Separatist political leaders and commanders [ edit ] 
President of Ichkeria (in chronological order) Aslan Maskhadov (killed 2005), Sheikh Abdul Halim (killed 2006), Dokka Umarov (killed 2013) Chechen separatist commanders and politicians Salman Abuyev (defected), Aslambek Abdulkhadzhiev (killed 2002), Artur Akhmadov (defected), Ilyas Akhmadov, Uvais Akhmadov, Ruslan Alikhadzhyev (forcibly disappeared 2000), Ruslan Alkhanov (defected), Vakha Arsanov (killed or murdered in captivity 2005), Turpal-Ali Atgeriev (died or murdered in captivity 2002), Akhmed Avtorkhanov (killed 2005), Arbi Barayev (killed 2001), Movsar Barayev (killed 2002), Shamil Basayev (killed 2006), Rizvan Chitigov (killed 2005), Lecha Dudayev (killed 2000), Suleiman Elmurzayev (killed 2007), Idris Gaibov (defected), Ruslan Gelayev (killed 2004), Sultan Geliskhanov (captured 2006), Lecha Islamov (died or murdered in captivity 2005), Aslambek Ismailov (killed 2000), Khunkarpasha Israpilov (killed 2000), Magomed Khambiyev (defected), Umar Khambiyev, Ibragim Khultygov (defected), Isa Munayev, Isa Muskiyev (killed 2006), Abu Movsayev (killed 2000), Khozh-Ahmed Noukhayev (unknown fate), Salman Raduyev (died or murdered in captivity 2002), Salautdin Temirbulatov (imprisoned), Movladi Udugov, Yamadayev brothers (defected), Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev (assassinated 2004), Akhmed Zakayev, and others North Caucasian and foreign militant leaders Anzor Astemirov (killed 2010), Muslim Atayev (killed 2005), Alan Digorsky, Ilias Gorchkhanov (killed 2005), Rappani Khalilov (killed 2007), Ibn al-Khattab (assassinated 2002), Abdul Madzhid (killed September 2008), Rasul Makasharipov (killed 2005), Muhannad (killed 2011), Abu Hafs al-Urduni (killed 2006), Abu al-Walid (killed 2004), Akhmed Yevloyev (captured 2010), and others 
Other associated people [ edit ] 
Journalists Andrei Babitsky, Supian Ependiyev (killed 1999), Adlan Khasanov (killed 2004), Ramzan Mezhidov (killed 1999), Anna Politkovskaya (assassinated 2006), Roddy Scott (killed 2002), Fatima Tlisova, and others Victims of human rights abuses Ruslan Alikhadzhyev (kidnapped 2000, presumed dead), Shakhid Baysayev (kidnapped 2000, presumed dead), Zura Bitiyeva (murdered with her family 2003), Elza Kungayeva (kidnapped, raped and murdered 2000), Nura Luluyeva (kidnapped and murdered 2000), Zelimkhan Murdalov (forcibly disappeared 2001, presumed dead), Malika Umazheva (murdered 2002), Khadzhi-Murat Yandiyev (forcibly disappeared 2000, presumed dead), and others Various Ruslan Aushev, Shamil Beno, Aleksey Galkin, Nur-Pashi Kulayev (imprisoned 2006, unknown fate), Sergei Lapin (imprisoned 2005), Timur Mucuraev, Lidia Yusupova, and others 
See also [ edit ] 
First Chechen War, Chechen people, International response to the Second Chechen War, Islam in Russia, Peoples of the Caucasus, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ a b c "Russia 'ends Chechnya operation ' ". BBC News . 16 April 2009 . Retrieved 14 April 2009 . , ^ DDDDNDDNDND NDDDD D DDNDD DNDNDDDNNDNN 22 NNN. DDDDDDDD Russian Ministry of Defense , ^ War Veterans in Postwar Situations: Chechnya, Serbia, Turkey, Peru, and CAte DaIvoire Nathalie Duclos, 2012, isbn 9781137109743, p. 237 , ^ Thousands of Russians killed in Chechnya , ^ On losses in Russian army , ^ Second Chechen campaign takes its toll , ^ "S. Russia police foiled 30 terrorist acts since Jan. -prosecutor Russia RIA Novosti". En.rian.ru. 21 June 2007 . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . , ^ Sean. "Interior Ministry Releases Casualties in Chechnya". Seansrussiablog.org . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . [ not in citation given ] , ^ "More than 1, 000 Chechen police died in anti-terrorist operations a Chechen Interior Ministry". Groups.yahoo.com . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . , ^ WPS observer. "On losses in Russian army". Wps.ru . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . , ^ The Second Chechen War (1999 a present) , ^ "Russia: December 25, 2002". Strategypage.com . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . , ^ "Russia put 750 militants out of action in 2009 a Interior Ministry Russia RIA Novosti". En.rian.ru. 1 October 2009 . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . , ^ What justice for Chechnya's disappeared?. AI Index: EUR 46/015/2007, 23 May 2007 , ^ Sarah Reinke: Schleichender VAlkermord in Tschetschenien. Verschwindenlassen - ethnische Verfolgung in Russland - Scheitern der internationalen Politik. Gesellschaft fAr bedrohte VAlker, 2005, p. 8 (PDF) , ^ "Russia acknowledges 3, 400 soldiers killed in Chechnya since 1999". Spacewar.com. 30 March 2005 . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . , ^ Sakwa, Richard (2005). "Introduction: Why Chechnya?". In Richard Sakwa. Chechnya: From Past to Future (1st ed.). London: Anthem Press. pp.1a42. ISBN978-1-84331-164-5. accessdate= requires url= (help) , ^ a b Pashin, Alexander. "Russian Army Operations and Weaponry During Second Military Campaign in Chechnya". Moscow Defense Brief (Centre for Analysis of Strategies and Technologies) (3/2002) . Retrieved 29 May 2009 . , ^ "CIA a The World Factbook a Russia". Cia.gov . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . , ^ It's over, and Putin won The Guardian Retrieved on 23 February 2009 , ^ Chechen self-proclaimed government-in-exile lays down weapons Russia Today Retrieved on 29 July 2009 , ^ [1] 4, 572 servicemen of all security agencies killed by December 2002, 680 Russian Armed Forces soldiers killed in 2003a2007 [2] , ^ Chechnya War, Reuters, 11 April 2007 , ^ Armstrong, Patrick. "Conflict in Chechnya: A Background Perspective." Journal of Conflict Studies. November 1999; Evangelista, Matthew. The Chechen Wars: Will Russia Go the Way of the Soviet Union? Washington, D.C.: Brookings Institution Press, 2003. ISBN 0-8157-2498-5; Dunlop, John B. Russia Confronts Chechnya: Roots of a Separatist Conflict. Cambridge, Mass.: Cambridge University Press, 1998. ISBN 0-521-63184-X; Seely, Robert. Russo-Chechen Conflict, 1800a2000: A Deadly Embrace. Florence, Ky.: Routledge, 2000. ISBN 0-7146-4992-9. , ^ In one estimate, based on a report by Lavrenti Beria to Joseph Stalin, 150, 000 of 478, 479 deported Ingush and Chechen people (or 31.3 percent) died within the first four years of the resettlement. See: Kleveman, Lutz. The New Great Game: Blood and Oil in Central Asia. Jackson, Tenn.: Atlantic Monthly Press, 2003. ISBN 0-87113-906-5. Another scholar puts the number of deaths at 22.7 percent: Extrapolating from NKVD records, 113, 000 Ingush and Chechens died (3, 000 before deportation, 10, 000 during deportation, and 100, 000 after resettlement) in the first three years of the resettlement out of 496, 460 total deportees. See: Naimark, Norman M. Fires of Hatred: Ethnic Cleansing in Twentieth-Century Europe. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 2001. ISBN 0-674-00994-0. A third source says a quarter of the 650, 000 deported Chechens, Ingush, Karachais and Kalmyks died within four years of resettlement. See: Mawdsley, Evan. The Stalin Years: The Soviet Union 1929a1953. Manchester, England: Manchester University Press, 2003. ISBN 0-7190-6377-9. However, estimates of the number of deportees sometimes varies widely. Two scholars estimated the number of Chechen and Ingush deportees at 700, 000, which would halve the percentage estimates of deaths. See: Fischer, Ruth and Leggett, John C. Stalin and German Communism: A Study in the Origins of the State Party. Edison, N.J.: Transaction Publishers, 2006. ISBN 0-87855-822-5 , ^ Conquest, Robert. The Nation Killers. New York: Macmillan, 1970. ISBN 0-333-10575-3 , ^ The European Parliament recognized this as an act of genocide on 26 February 2004.Campana, AurAlie. "Case Study: The Massive Deportation of the Chechen People: How and why Chechens were Deported." Online Encyclopedia of Mass Violence. November 2007. Accessed 11 August 2008; Nurbiyev, Aslan. "Relocation of Chechen 'Genocide' Memorial Opens Wounds." Agence France Press. 4 June 2008; Jaimoukha, Amjad M. The Chechens: A Handbook. Florence, Ky.: Routledge, 2005. ISBN 0-415-32328-2. , ^ Campana, Aurelie."The Effects of War on the Chechen National Identity Construction."Article 8.2(2006):129a148 , ^ a b "Second Chechnya War a 1999a???". GlobalSecurity.org . Retrieved 15 April 2008 . , ^ Lajos F. SzAszdi, Russian CivilaMilitary Relations and the Origins of the Second Chechen War , page 155, University Press of America, 2008. ISBN 0-7618-4037-0 , ^ Tishkov, Valery. Chechnya: Life in a War-Torn Society. Berkeley: University of California Press, 2004. Page 114. , ^ Russell, John (2005). "Chechnya, 11 September and the War Against Terrorism". In Richard Sakwa. Chechnya: From Past to Future (1st ed.). London: Anthem Press. pp.239a265. ISBN978-1-84331-164-5. accessdate= requires url= (help) , ^ from the Russian original of interview given by Stepashin: D DNDDNDDDD DDNDD DDDN NDDDDNN NDDDNNNDD. DDDD DDNDDDNN DDDNNDDD D NNDD NDNDNDDDDD NDDNDDDNNDDDNN DDNDDDN N DDNND. D DN DDDDDNDDDDD DNDND D DDNDDN D DDDNNND-NDDNNDND. DDD NND NND DNDDDDNDD DN, DDDD DNDD DN DD DNDD DDNNDDD D DDNDDD. D DDNDDDD DDD NDDDNN DD NDNDDDDDDN DNDDDN N DDNDDD, DDNDDNNN D DDNDDDDDN DDNNNDDDDDN. DDD NND DDDDDDDN DNNDD DDDNN DDNDDD DDDDDD DD DNDNND. DD NNDD DN DDDDND NDNDNDNN DDD NDDDDD. DD DND D ND DNDDN DDNDDNDNDD DDD D DDDDDD DNDD DDNDNDDNDDD. , ^ a b Yuri Felshtinsky and Vladimir Pribylovsky The Age of Assassins. The Rise and Rise of Vladimir Putin , Gibson Square Books, London, 2008, ISBN 1-906142-07-6, page 105. The interview was given on 14 January 2000. , ^ Sergey Pravosudov. Interview with Sergei Stepashin. Nezavisimaya Gazeta, 14 January 2000(in Russian) , ^ Richard Sakwa, ed. (2005). "Robert Bruce Ware: Mythology and Political Failure in Chechnya". Chechnya: From Past to Future . Anthem Press. pp.79a115. ISBN978-1-84331-164-5. , ^ "Deadly blast hits Russian parade". BBC News . 9 May 2002 . Retrieved 23 May 2010 . , ^ The Jamestown Foundation; CHECHEN GUNMEN ATTACK RUSSIAN ARMY UNIT IN DAGESTAN. [ dead link ] , ^ "Don't Use Fuel-air Weapons in Chechnya Human Rights Watch". Hrw.org. 2000-02-18 . Retrieved 2013-10-01 . , ^ "Russia's bombs: Who is to blame?". BBC News. 30 September 1999 . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . , ^ "David Satter a House committee on Foreign Affairs" (PDF) . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . , ^ David Satter. Darkness at Dawn: The Rise of the Russian Criminal State . Yale University Press. 2003. ISBN 0-300-09892-8, pages 24a33 and 63a71. , ^ Video on YouTube In Memoriam Aleksander Litvinenko , Jos de Putter, Tegenlicht documentary VPRO 2007, Moscow, 2004 Interview with Anna Politkovskaya. , ^ Russian Federation: Amnesty International's concerns and recommendations in the case of Mikhail Trepashkin a Amnesty International [ dead link ] , ^ (Russian) Litvinenko's details on apartment bombings in Moscow, an interview with Sergei Kovalev, radio Echo of Moscow, 25 July 2002, computer translation , ^ Bomb Blamed in Fatal Moscow Apartment Blast, Richard C. Paddock, Los Angeles Times, 10 September 1999 , ^ At least 90 dead in Moscow apartment blast at the Wayback Machine (archived November 7, 2000), from staff and wire reports, CNN, 10 September 1999 , ^ The Chechen Wars: Will Russia Go the Way of the Soviet Union? , p. 81, Matthew Evangelista, pub. Brookings Institution Press, 2002, ISBN 0-8157-2499-3, ISBN 978-0-8157-2499-5 , ^ Did Putin's Agents Plant the Bombs?, Jamie Dettmer, Insight on the News, 17 April 2000. , ^ Cobain, Ian (13 April 2007). "I am plotting a new Russian revolution". The Guardian (London) . Retrieved 23 May 2010 . , ^ "Re: 7727 No.11, Jeremy Putley's review of "Darkness at Dawn" by D. Satter". Cdi.org . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . , ^ "The Shadow of Ryazan". Nationalreview.com . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . , ^ Commentary: Litvinenko Under the Microscope. The National Interest (1 December 2006). Retrieved on 25 November 2010. , ^ "Doom, gloom and boom". The Economist . 17 July 2008. , ^ "Alexander Litvinenko". The Daily Telegraph (London). 25 November 2006 . Retrieved 23 May 2010 . , ^ [[Richard SakwaSakwa, Richard]] (2008). Putin, Russia's choice (2nd ed.). Routledge. pp.333a334. ISBN978-0-415-40765-6. , ^ a b Vladimir Putin and Russia's Special Services Gordon Bennet, 2002 , ^ Western treatment of Russia signifies erosion of reason Dr. Vlad Sobell, 2007 , ^ Russia Profile Weekly Experts Panel: Russian Presidential Election a Affirming Democracy or Confirming Autocracy? [ dead link ] , ^ Russia acknowledges bombing raids in Chechnya at the Wayback Machine (archived September 19, 2000), CNN, 26 August 1999 , ^ Russia launches more air strikes against Chechnya, RTA news, 27 September 1999 , ^ David Hoffman Miscalculations Paved Path to Chechen War Washington Post , 20 March 2000 , ^ Refugee bus reportedly shelled by Russian tank CNN, 7 October 1999 , ^ a b Russian warplanes kill dozens of villagers The Independent, 11 October 1999 , ^ Russia to 'display' truth on Chechnya, Reuters, 9 October 1999 , ^ CHAMBER JUDGMENTS IN SIX APPLICATIONS AGAINST RUSSIA European Court of Human Rights, 24 February 2005 , ^ Europe: Russians 'within sight' of Grozny BBC News, 16 October 1999 , ^ Phase Two a The Ground Campaign a OctoberaNovember 1999 Globalsecurity.org , ^ Crimes Of War Project > Expert Analysis [ dead link ] , ^ [3] [ dead link ] , ^ Can Russia win the Chechen war? BBC News, 10 January 2000 , ^ "Russia/Chechnya: "No Happiness Remains": Civilian Killings, Pillage, And Rape In Alkhan-Yurt, Chechnya". Hrw.org . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . , ^ "A letter of Sgt. S.Durov". Army.lv . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . , ^ Russia may withdraw some troops from Chechnya [ dead link ] , ^ Scars remain amid Chechen revival BBC News, 3 March 2007 , ^ "Russia admits heavy casualties". BBC News . 26 January 2000 . Retrieved 10 June 2006 . , ^ "Russian army battered in Grozny". BBC News . 6 January 2000 . Retrieved 10 June 2006 . , ^ Oleg Orlov War Crimes and Human Rights Violations in Chechnya 26 May 2000 , ^ Russians urged to stop 'vacuum' bombings BBC News, 15 February 2000 , ^ Chechens down Russian helicopter BBC News, 19 February 2000 , ^ "Reassessing Strategy: A Historical Examination". Usacac.army.mil. 11 October 2011 . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . , ^ Captain Adam Geibel Ambush at Serzhen Yurt: Command-Detonated Mines in the Second Chechen War Engineer: The Professional Bulletin for Army Engineers, Feb 2001 , ^ "Land of the warlords". The Guardian (London). 13 June 2006 . Retrieved 23 May 2010 . , ^ Williams, Stuart (16 April 2009). "Russia ends 10-year Chechnya operation". The Sydney Morning Herald . Retrieved 17 April 2009 . , ^ Beslan's unanswered questions International Herald Tribune, 30 May 2006 , ^ Russia censured over Chechen man BBC , ^ U.S. Response to Human Rights Commission Resolution on Chechnya U.S. Mission Geneva , ^ Russian Federation 2001 Report Amnesty International , ^ European Court Rules Against Moscow Institute for War and Peace Reporting, 2 March 2005M , ^ a b Russia: Chechen Mass Grave Found, Agence France-Presse, 21 June 2008 , ^ Amnesty International Issues Reports on Disappearances, The Jamestown Foundation, 24 May 2007 , ^ A vexing reminder of war in Chechnya's booming capital, International Herald Tribune , 29 April 2008 , ^ Georgia says gorge 'under control' BBC News, 2 September 2002 , ^ UN helicopter shot down in Georgia BBC News, 8 October 2001 , ^ DDDDN DNDDDDDDND DDD D-D. DDDNDDDDD, Chechenpress, 27.05.06 , ^ "DDDDDD a DD NDDDDD, DDDDD a DD DDDDD", Kommersant, 07.08.2006 , ^ Law enforcers killed 72 militants in Chechnya in 2007, RIA Novosti, 16/ 01/ 2008 , ^ Smokescreen Around Chechnya The Moscow Times, 18 March 2005 , ^ Russian TV accuses military of censorship, BBC News, 23 January 2000 , ^ "Kremlin Stifles Critical Coverage of Chechnya". Ifex.org . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . , ^ Silencing Chechnya Moscow Times, 27 January 2005 , ^ Russia Bars ABC News for Interview With Separatist, The New York Times , 2 August 2005 , ^ a b POLL FINDS A PLURALITY OF RUSSIANS DISTRUST RAMZAN The Jamestown Foundation, 27 March 2007 , ^ Chechen official puts death toll for 2 wars at up to 160, 000 International Herald Tribune, 16 August 2005 , ^ Russia: Chechen Official Puts War Death Toll At 160, 000 RFE/RL, 16 August 2005 , ^ Death Toll Put at 160, 000 in Chechnya The Moscow Times, 16 August 2005 , ^ a b c d e Chechnya war, Reuters AlertNet, 11 April 2007 , ^ Amnesty International Issues Reports on Disappearances Jamestown Foundation, 24 May 2007 , ^ a b Civil and military casualties of the wars in Chechnya Russian-Chechen Friendship Society , ^ "Chechnya Conflict and Environmental Implications". American.edu . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . , ^ Chechen Republic // GENERAL INFORMATION, Kommersant, 10 March 2004 , ^ a b Chechnya habitat 'ravaged by war', BBC News, 22 June 2006 , ^ Military operations greatly alter Chechen mountain life, Prague Watchdog, 4 May 2003 , ^ 'In the Caucasus, you can buy anything', Al-Ahram Weekly , 2004 , ^ Chechnya: Land Mines Seen As Continuing Scourge RFE/RL, 19 October 2004 , ^ Chechnya, LM Report 2004, 8 February 2005 , ^ "May 2001: Summary of main news related to the conflict in Chechnya". Watchdog.cz . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . , ^ The battle for the soul of Chechnya, The Guardian , 22 November 2007 , ^ Chechnya Weekly from the Jamestown Foundation [ dead link ] , ^ Routledge Handbook of Russian Politics and Society Graeme Gill, Professor Department of Government Graeme Gill, James Young. 2013. ISBN 9781136641022. p. 239 , ^ [MSF Activity Reports on The Russian Federation: 2006 http://www.doctorswithoutborders.org], Doctors Without Borders , ^ Russian demographic statistics 2008 Rosstat Retrieved on Oct-05-2009 , ^ A determined spirit guides Grozny, The Boston Globe , 14 November 2007 , ^ Grozny's lost boys, Sydney Morning Herald , 22 March 2008 , ^ A Mystery Malady in Chechnya, Los Angeles Times , 10 March 2006 , ^ Large numbers of street children discovered in Chechnya, Prague Watchdog, 23 March 2007 , ^ [4] [ dead link ] , ^ Employment and unemployment in Russia August 2009 Rosstat, Retrieved on Oct-05-2009 , ^ DDNDN a DDDDN DD NNDDDN DDDNDDDNDNN NNDDD NDDDDDDD DDNNDD, 5.12.2007 , ^ Amnesty International Urgent Action, Amnesty International, 25 January 2008 , ^ "The Consequences of War for Education and Culture in Chechnya". Idee.org. 29 September 2000 . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . , ^ "Spring rebuilding in Chechnya". International Herald Tribune . 29 March 2009 . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . , ^ The Crisis in Chechnya and the Northern Caucasus at a Glance, IRC, 31 January 2006 , ^ a b c d The warlord and the spook The Economist, 31 March 2007 , ^ Chechnya's Walking Wounded Time (magazine)/CNN, 28 September 2003 , ^ Island lessons for Russian war vet, Oakland Tribune, 30 April 2003 , ^ a b The Geography of OMON Deployments in the North Caucasus, The Jamestown Foundation, 3 April 2008 , ^ For Russians, Police Rampage Fuels Fear Washington Post , 27 March 2005 , ^ Russia: Police Brutality Shows Traces Of Chechnya RFE/RL, 20 June 2005 , ^ Political turmoil erupts again in deadly protests IHT, 2 November 2005 , ^ Migrants flee town after racial violence People's Daily, 14 September 2006 , ^ Teenager Admits to Over 30 Murders The Moscow Times, 29 May 2007 , ^ Nationalists rally in Russian town near Chechnya Reuters, 5 June 2007 , ^ Racist Violence Plagues Russian Army IWPR, 15-Sep-00 , ^ Dokka Umarov speech [ dead link ] , ^ a b Johnson, David (19 April 2002). "separatists kill 18 pro-Russians in Chechnya, Putin says war is over". Russia Weekly (Washington, D.C.: Center for Defense Information) . Retrieved 19 December 2007 . , ^ "Chechen peace amid gunfire". Cable News Network. 21 December 2002 . Retrieved 19 December 2007 . , ^ Sakker, Stephen (10 July 2006). "Sergey Ivanov: "The war in Chechnya is over " " (in Russian). London: British Broadcasting Corp . Retrieved 19 December 2007 . , ^ Borisov, Tim (10 July 2007). "Ramzan Kadyrov: Since the war ended forever" (in Russian). Moscow: Rossiiskaya Gazeta . Retrieved 19 December 2007 . , ^ "The Situation in Chechnya" (PDF). Ontario: Southern Ontario Model United Nations Assembly. 2007. p.5. Archived from the original on 16 February 2008 . Retrieved 19 December 2007 . , ^ Blomfield, Adrian (6 July 2006). "Chechnya's new leader: a boxer with his own army". The Daily Telegraph (London: Telegraph Media Group) . Retrieved 19 December 2007 . , ^ Romanov, Pyotr (11 July 2006). "Outside View: End of Caucasian war". World Peace Herald (Washington, D.C.: News World Communications) . Retrieved 19 December 2007 . , ^ Blomfield, Adrian (27 March 2007). "In the front line of Putin's secret war". The Daily Telegraph (London) . Retrieved 23 May 2010 . , ^ Russia Factbook Central Intelligence Agency , ^ John Pike. "Second Chechnya War". Globalsecurity.org . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . , ^ Russian Federation What justice for Chechnya's disappeared? [ dead link ] , ^ The Alkhazurovo Operation: Are Chechnya's separatists on the Rebound? [ dead link ] , ^ "Operation Enduring Freedom". iCasualties . Retrieved 17 October 2011 . , ^ DDDNNDNDN: NNDDDDD NDNDDNDD, DDNNNDDDD, DDNDNDDDD [ dead link ] , ^ DDDDNNDD: NNDDDDD NDNNDND (1996a2007 DD.) [ dead link ] , ^ Articles a Containing Russia. RealClearPolitics (30 April 2007). Retrieved on 25 November 2010. , ^ Commissioner Hammarberg meets Putin and Medvedev Retrieved: 8-26-08 , ^ Russian Caucasus 'stabilising': EU Commissioner Retrieved: 8-26-08 , ^ Thousands still missing in Chechnya Retrieved: 8-26-08 , ^ DNDDD.DN // DDDDNDDD / DDNNDN / DDNNNN DDN DDD DNDDD. Grani.ru (26 March 2009). Retrieved on 25 November 2010. , ^ Shchedrov, Oleg; Buribayev, Aydar; Pearce, Tim (27 March 2009). "Russia mulls lifting tight Chechnya security regime". Moscow: Reuters . Retrieved 28 March 2009 . , ^ DNDDD.DN // DDDDD / DDDDDDDD: DDD DDDDDD NDNNDDDNN DDDNNDDN DDD DDNDDD. Grani.ru (27 March 2009). Retrieved on 25 November 2010. , Bibliography [ edit ] 
[5] "Three Worlds Gone Mad" Author: Robert Young Pelton, A Dirty War: A Russian Reporter in Chechnya Author: Anna Politkovskaya, A Military History of Russia: From Ivan the Terrible to the War in Chechnya Author: David R. Stone (preview available), A Small Corner of Hell: Dispatches from Chechnya Author: Anna Politkovskaya (preview available), Allah's Mountains: The Battle for Chechnya Author: Sebastian Smith (preview available), Chechnya: From Nationalism to Jihad Author: James Hughes (preview available), Chechnya: From Past To Future Author: Richard Sakwa and others (preview available), Chechnya: Life in a War-Torn Society Author: Valery Tishkov (preview available), Chechnya: The Case for Independence Author: Tony Wood, Chechnya: To the Heart of a Conflict Author: Andrew Meier, Chienne de Guerre: A Woman Reporter Behind the Lines of the War in Chechnya Author: Anne Nivat, Crying Wolf: The Return of War to Chechnya Author: Vanora Bennett, My Jihad Author: Aukai Collins, One Soldier's War Author: Arkady Babchenko., Open Wound: Chechnya 1994a2003 Author: Stanley Greene, Putin's Russia Author: Anna Politkovskaya, Russia's Chechen Wars 1994a2000: Lessons from Urban Combat Author: Olga Oliker (preview available), Russia's Islamic Threat Author: Gordon M. Hahn, Russia's Restless Frontier: The Chechnya Factor in Post-Soviet Russia Author: Dmitri Trenin, Anatol Lieven (preview available), Russia's Wars with Chechnya 1994a2003 Author: Michael Orr, Russian Military Reform, 1992a2002 Author: Anne Aldis, Roger N. McDermott, Russo-Chechen Conflict, 1800a2000: A Deadly Embrace Author: Robert Seely (preview available), The Angel of Grozny: Orphans of a Forgotten War Author: Asne Seierstad, The Chechen Wars: Will Russia Go the Way of the Soviet Union? Author: Matthew Evangelista (preview available), The Lone Wolf and the Bear: Three Centuries of Chechen Defiance of Russian Rule Author: Moshe Gammer (preview available), The Oath: A Surgeon Under Fire Author: Khassan Baiev, The Wolves of Islam: Russia and the Faces of Chechen Terror Author: Paul J. Murphy (preview available), "Welcome to Hell": Arbitrary Detention, Torture, and Extortion in Chechnya Author: Human Rights Watch (preview available), . 
External links [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Second Chechen War ., Timelines and chronologies BBC Timeline: Chechnya, . Summaries CHECHNYA: TWO FEDERAL INTERVENTIONS Conflict Studies Research Centre, Second Chechnya War a 1999a??? GlobalSecurity.Org, . Human rights issues Video: Is it safe in Chechnya? A European human rights body has described the situation in Russia's Chechen republic as critical (21 April 2008), Council of Europe resolutions on 'The human rights situation in the Chechen Republic': Resolution 1323 (2003), Resolution 1403 (2004), . , Human Rights Violations in Chechnya Society for the RussianaChechen Friendship, The Trauma of ongoing War in Chechnya Doctors Without Borders, . Articles "The North Caucasus, " Russian Analytical Digest No. 22 (5 June 2007), Critical media coverage of Chechnya stifled, Shifting Battlefields of the Chechen War (April 2006), The Chechen resistance movement: 2006 in review Jamestown Foundation, ISN Case Study: The North Caucasus on the Brink (August 2006), . 
v , t , e , . ChechenaRussian conflict , Key events, Conflict, Federalists, Separatists, Mujahideen, Wars First Chechen War, War of Dagestan, Second Chechen War , War in Ingushetia, Insurgency since 2009, . First Chechen War (1994a96) 1994 Grozny battle, 1994 Khankala battle, 1994a95 Grozny battle, 1996 Shatoy ambush, 1996 Grozny battle, 1996 Khasavyurt accord, . Second Chechen War (1999a2009) 1999 Chechnya bombing, 1999a2000 Grozny battle, 2000 Height 776 battle, 2000 Komsomolskoye battle, 2000 Zhani ambush, 2002 Khankala Mi-26 crash, 2004 Nazran raid, 2004 Grozny raid, 2005 Nalchik raid, Counter-insurgency operations, Guerrilla phase, . , Major attacks 1995 Budyonnovsk hostage crisis, 1996 Black Sea hostage crisis, 1996 Kizlyar hostage crisis, 1999 Apartment bombings, 2002 Moscow hostage crisis, 2002 Grozny truck bombing, 2004 Aircraft bombings, 2004 Beslan hostage crisis, . Related topics Censorship of Chechnya coverage, Crimes and terrorism, Mass graves, Suicide attacks, Assassinations, Casualties (Second Chechen War) , Aircraft losses, International response, Politics of Chechnya, Chechenpress, Kavkaz Center, . In culture The 3 Rooms of Melancholia, Alexandra, Angel of Grozny, Ant in a Glass Jar, The Diary of Polina Zherebtsova, The Pathologies, War, . , Combatants 
Russian Federation 
Armed Forces Ground Forces Ministry of Internal Affairs OMON ODON Internal Troops Federal Security Service, Main Intelligence Directorate, Special Forces ( Spetsnaz ), . Republic of Chechnya Militia ( Kadyrovtsy ) Leaders Russian Federation Boris Yeltsin Vladimir Putin Dmitry Medvedev Chechnya a Akhmad Kadyrov Alu Alkhanov Ramzan Kadyrov a Sulim Yamadayev a Dzhabrail Yamadayev a Ruslan Yamadayev , Combatants Chechen Republic of Ichkeria Caucasian Front Leaders a Dzhokhar Dudayev, a Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev, a Aslan Maskhadov, a Abdul-Halim Sadulayev, a Ruslan Gelayev, a Shamil Basayev, a Arbi Barayev, a Salman Raduyev, Akhmed Zakayev, a Turpal-Ali Atgeriyev, a Vakha Arsanov, Ilyas Akhmadov, a Movsar Barayev, a Muslim Atayev, a Rasul Makasharipov, a Ilias Gorchkhanov, a Rappani Khalilov, . , Combatants Caucasus Emirate Arab Mujahideen Riyad-us Saliheen Brigade Islamic International Brigade Leaders Ali Abu Mukhammad, a Dokka Umarov, Aslambek Vadalov, (POW) Ali Taziev, a Anzor Astemirov, a Supyan Abdullayev, Aslan Byutukayev, Movladi Udugov, a Khuseyn Gakayev, Tarkhan Gaziyev, a Said Buryatsky, a Magomed Vagabov, Rustam Asildarov, a Asker Dzhappuyev, a Arthur Getagazhev, a Ibn al-Khattab, a Abu al-Walid, a Abu Hafs al-Urduni, a Muhannad, a Abdulla Kurd, . , v , t , e , . Armed conflicts involving Russia (incl. Imperial and Soviet times) , Internal Razin's Rebellion, Bulavin Rebellion, Pugachev's Rebellion, Decembrist revolt, Russian Civil War, August Uprising, Coup d'Atat attempt (1991), 1993 Russian constitutional crisis, First Chechen War, War of Dagestan, Second Chechen War , Insurgency in the North Caucasus, . , Pre-17th century MuscoviteaVolga Bulgars war (1376), Battle of the Vozha River (1378), Lithuanian-Muscovite War (1492a94), Russo-Swedish War (1495a97), Lithuanian-Muscovite War (1500a03), Battle of the Siritsa River (1501), Lithuanian-Muscovite War (1507a08), Lithuanian-Muscovite War (1512a22), Lithuanian-Muscovite War (1534a37), Russo-Crimean Wars, Russo-Kazan Wars, Russo-Swedish War (1554a57), Livonian War, Russo-Swedish War (1590a95), PolishaMuscovite War (1605a18) and the Time of Troubles, Ingrian War, Smolensk War, Russo-Persian War (1651a53), SinoaRussian border conflicts (1652a89), Russo-Polish War (1654a67), Second Northern War, Russo-Turkish War (1676a81), Russo-Turkish War (1686a1700), . , 18tha19th century Great Northern War, Russo-Turkish War (1710a11), Russo-Persian War (1722a23), War of the Polish Succession (1733a38), Austro-RussianaTurkish War (1735a39), War of the Austrian Succession (1740-48), Russo-Swedish War (1741a43), Seven Years' War, Russo-Turkish War (1768a74), Bar Confederation, Russo-Turkish War (1787a92), Russo-Swedish War (1788a90), Russo-Polish War (1792), KoAciuszko Uprising, Russo-Persian War (1796), War of the Second Coalition, War of the Third Coalition, Russo-Persian War (1804a13), War of the Fourth Coalition, Russo-Turkish War (1806a12), Anglo-Russian War, Finnish War, War of the Fifth Coalition, French invasion of Russia, War of the Sixth Coalition, War of the Seventh Coalition, Caucasian War, Russo-Persian War (1826a28), Russo-Turkish War (1828a29), November Uprising, Hungarian Revolution of 1848, Crimean War, January Uprising, Russo-Turkish War (1877a78), Boxer Rebellion, . , 20th century Russo-Japanese War, World War I, UkrainianaSoviet War, Finnish Civil War, Heimosodat, Estonian War of Independence, Latvian War of Independence, LithuanianaSoviet War, PolishaSoviet War, Red Army invasion of Azerbaijan, Red Army invasion of Georgia, SovietaJapanese border conflicts, Sino-Soviet conflict (1929), Soviet invasion of Xinjiang, Xinjiang War (1937), Soviet invasion of Poland, Winter War, World War II, Ili Rebellion, First Indochina War, Korean War, Hungarian Revolution of 1956, Eritrean War of Independence, War of Attrition, Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia, Sino-Soviet border conflict, Vietnam War, Ethio-Somali (Ogaden) War, Soviet war in Afghanistan, . , Post-Soviet War of Transnistria, Nagorno-Karabakh War, Georgian Civil War, Civil war in Tajikistan, Russo-Georgian War, Russian military intervention in Ukraine 2014 Crimean crisis, War in Donbass, . , . , Military history of Russia, Russian Winter, Russian Revolution, Cold War, Sphere of influence, . , v , t , e , . Post-Cold War European conflicts , Eastern Europe War of Transnistria (1992), Russian constitutional crisis (1993), Crimean crisis (2014), War in Donbass (2014), . , Western Europe Basque conflict (1959a2011), The Troubles (1968a1998), Dissident Irish Republican Campaign (1998apresent), . , Yugoslav Wars Ten-Day War (1991), Croatian War of Independence (1991a95), Bosnian War (1992a95), CroataBosniak War (1992a94), Albanian Rebellion (1997), Kosovo War (1998a99), AlbanianaYugoslav border incident (1999), Insurgency in the PreAevo Valley (1999a2001), Insurgency in the Republic of Macedonia (2001), . , North Caucasus East Prigorodny Conflict (1992), ChechenaRussian conflict (1785apresent) First Chechen War (1994a96), War of Dagestan (1999), Second Chechen War (1999a2009) , . , War in Ingushetia (2007), Insurgency in the North Caucasus (2009apresent), . , South Caucasus Nagorno-Karabakh War (1988a94), South Ossetia War (1991a92), Georgian Civil War (1991a93), War in Abkhazia (1992a93), War in Abkhazia (1998), Kodori crisis (2001), Pankisi Gorge crisis (2002a04), Kodori crisis (2006), Mardakert skirmishes (2008), RussiaaGeorgia War (2008), Nagorno-Karabakh skirmish (2010), Mardakert skirmishes (2010), . , Asian conflicts, African conflicts, Middle East conflicts, Conflicts in the Americas, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Second_Chechen_War and oldid=632299751" Categories: Conflicts in 1999, Conflicts in 2000, Conflicts in 2001, Conflicts in 2002, Conflicts in 2003, Conflicts in 2004, Conflicts in 2005, Conflicts in 2006, Conflicts in 2007, 2000s conflicts, Second Chechen War, Post-Soviet conflicts, . Hidden categories: Pages using duplicate arguments in template calls, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from October 2014, Pages using citations with accessdate and no URL, All articles with dead external links, Articles with dead external links from October 2011, Articles with Russian-language external links, Articles with dead external links from October 2013, Articles with dead external links from November 2010, CS1 Russian-language sources (ru), Use dmy dates from July 2013, Articles with unsourced statements from October 2009, Articles with unsourced statements from April 2008, Articles with unsourced statements from February 2008, Articles with unsourced statements from June 2009, Articles with unsourced statements from January 2008, Articles with unsourced statements from September 2014, Accuracy disputes from April 2008, All accuracy disputes, Articles with unsourced statements from July 2009, Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2007, All articles containing potentially dated statements, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, Asturianu, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, DNDDDNNDD, CatalA, AeAtina, Cymraeg, Deutsch, Eesti, IIIIIIII, EspaAol, Esperanto, FranAais, iei, Bahasa Indonesia, Italiano, aaaaaaa, Magyar, DDDDDDDNDD, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, SlovenAina, SlovenAAina, DNDNDD / srpski, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Suomi, Svenska, DDNDNND/tatarAa, aaa, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, Tiang Viat, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 3 November 2014 at 16:55.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
