
Security Council of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Security Council of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Russia , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Russia , Constitution, Law, . Impeachment, Mental Health Law, Russian Criminal Code, Tax Code, . , Presidency President: Vladimir Putin, . Presidential Administration, Security Council , State Council, . , Executive Prime Minister: Dmitry Medvedev, . Government, Cabinet (14th) , . , Legislature Federal Assembly, Federation Council, State Duma, . , . , Judiciary Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, Prosecutor General, Supreme Court of Arbitration, Legal system, . , Elections Presidential elections, Legislative elections, Central Election Commission, Electoral geography, Political parties, . , Foreign relations United Nations, ArabaIsraeli conflict, . , Related topics Administrative divisions, Federal subjects, Regional parliaments, Armed forces, Martial law, . , Civic Chamber, Accounts Chamber, E-Government, Opposition, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The Security Council of the Russian Federation (SCRF) (Russian: DDDDN DDDDDDNDDNND DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD ) is a consultative body of the Russian President that works out the President's decisions on national security affairs. Composed of key ministers and agency heads and chaired by the President of Russia, the SCRF was established to be a forum for coordinating and integrating national security policy. It is the successor of the Security Council of the USSR.
Contents
1 History , 2 Role , 3 Secretaries of the Security Council , 4 References , 5 External links , 6 References , . 
History [ edit ] 
Since its formation, it apparently has gradually lost influence in competition with other power centers in the presidential administration. However, the June 1996 appointment of former army general and presidential candidate Alexander Lebed to head the Security Council improved prospects for the organization's standing. In July 1996, a presidential decree assigned the Security Council a wide variety of new missions. The decree's description of the Security Council's consultative functions was especially vague and wide-ranging, although it positioned the head of the Security Council directly subordinate to the president. As had been the case previously, the Security Council was required to hold meetings at least once a month.
After President Medvedev removed Yuri Baluyevskiy as chief of the General Staff and appointed him to the Security Council, several Russian analysts suggested that the Security Council was a sinecure for military and security officials on their way to retirement. Its limited role also may have been indicated during the 2008 South Ossetia war, when the Security Council met on the second day of warfare, after Medvedev had already directed the engagement of Russian forces against Georgia. [ 1 ] 
Role [ edit ] 
Meeting place of the council in the Kremlin Senate in the Moscow Kremlin 
The Security Council draws up crucial documents defining conceptual approaches to national security. Regular meetings of the Security Council are held according to a schedule set by the Chairman (the President of Russia); if necessary, the Council can hold extraordinary meetings. The Chairman defines the agenda and order of the day based on recommendations by the Secretary of the Security Council. The Chairman presides over meetings, while the Secretary holds working meetings with Council members on a regular basis.
It has been argued that the coordinating role defined for the Security Council in the National Security Strategy to 2020, [ 2 ] published in May 2009, represents a strengthening of its influence and importance within Russian governance under its new Secretary Nikolay Patrushev. [ 3 ] 
A Presidential decree on the Security Council issued by President Medvedev in early May 2011 appeared to strengthen the role of the presidential administration in overseeing military affairs. The edict clarified that the Security Council examines issues and prepares "presidential decisions" on the "organization of defense, military organizational development, defense production, and military and military-technical cooperation of Russia with foreign states", [ 4 ] as well as the formulation and implementation of foreign policy, and the monitoring of public expenditure on defence, national security and law enforcement. The Secretary will also make proposals to the Secretary Council for coordinating the work of federal and regional executive bodies in national emergencies. [ 5 ] 
Secretaries of the Security Council [ edit ] 
Yury Skokov (1992a1993), Yevgeny Shaposhnikov (1993), Oleg Lobov (1993a1996), Aleksandr Lebed (1996), Ivan Rybkin (1996a1998), Andrei Kokoshin (1998), Nikolai Bordyuzha (1998a1999), Vladimir Putin (1998-1999), Sergei Ivanov (1999a2001), Vladimir Rushailo (2001a2004), Igor Ivanov (2004-2007), Valentin Sobolev (2007- 12 May 2008), Nikolai Patrushev (since 12 May 2008), . 
References [ edit ] 
^ Russian Military Reform and Defense Policy , ^ Text of the Strategy in English , ^ Review of National Security Strategy to 2020 by Keir Giles, NATO Defense College , ^ Russian Military Reform and Defense Policy , ^ "The 2012 Presidential Elections in Russia: What Future for the Medvedev-Putin Tandem?" , External links [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Security Council ., Official Site (in Russian), Agentura.ru (in Russian), Information in English, . 
References [ edit ] 
Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Security_Council_of_Russia and oldid=570942403" Categories: Government of Russia, National security councils, 1992 establishments in Russia, . Hidden categories: Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DDDDNNNDDN, DODDNDD, Cymraeg, Deutsch, Bahasa Indonesia, aeaee, DNNNDDD, DNDNDD / srpski, Suomi, Svenska, Tiang Viat, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 31 August 2013 at 13:20.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
