
Semi-presidential system - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Semi-presidential system 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2010) , This article includes a list of references, but its sources remain unclear because it has insufficient inline citations . Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (October 2011) , Presidential republics with a full presidential system. Presidential republics with a semi-presidential system . Parliamentary republics with an executive presidency chosen by the parliament Parliamentary republics with a ceremonial president, where the prime minister is the executive. Constitutional monarchies where executive power is vested in a prime minister. Constitutional monarchies, which have a separate head of government but where royalty hold political power. Absolute monarchies Single-party state 
Part of a series on , Politics , Primary topics Index of politics articles, Politics by country, Politics by subdivision, Political economy, Political history, Political history of the world, Political philosophy, . , Political systems Anarchism, . City-state, Democracy, . Federacy, Feudalism, . Dictatorship, Directorialism, . Meritocracy, Monarchy, . Parliamentary, Presidential, . Semi-presidential , Theocracy, . , Academic disciplines Political science
(political scientists) , International relations
(theory) , Comparative politics, . , Public administration Bureaucracy (street-level) , Adhocracy, . , Policy Public policy (doctrine) , . Public interest, Foreign policy, . , Organs of government Separation of powers, . Legislature, Executive, . Judiciary, Electoral branch, . , Related topics Sovereignty, Theories of political behavior, Political psychology, Biology and political orientation, Political organisations, . , Subseries Electoral systems, . Elections, . , Politics portal , v , t , e , . , Part of the Politics series on, Executive government Head of state Monarch, President, . , Government Head of government Chancellor, Chief Executive, Chief Minister, First Minister, Premier, Prime Minister, . , . , Cabinet 
Cabinet collective responsibility, . , Ministry Minister, Secretary, . , . , Other Governor, Mayor, . , . , Systems Presidential, Semi-presidential (cohabitational) , Parliamentary (Westminster) , . , Lists National leaders, National governments, Heads of State and Government, . , Politics portal, v , t , e , . , The semi-presidential system (referred to as semi-presidentialism ) is a system of government in which a popularly elected fixed term president exists alongside a prime minister and Cabinet who are responsible to the legislature of a state. It differs from a parliamentary republic in that it has a popularly elected head of state who is more than a purely ceremonial figurehead, and from the presidential system in that the cabinet, although named by the president, is responsible to the legislature, which may force the cabinet to resign through a motion of no confidence.
While the Weimar Republic (1919a1933) was the one of the earliest examples of a semi-presidential system, the term was first used in a 1978 work by political scientist Maurice Duverger to describe the then relatively-new French Fifth Republic, which he dubbed a rAgime semi-prAsidentiel . [ 1 ] 
Contents
1 Subtypes , 2 Division of Powers , 3 Cohabitation , 4 Republics with a semi-presidential system of government , 5 See also , 6 Notes , 7 References , 8 External links , . 
Subtypes [ edit ] 
There are two separate subtypes of semi-presidentialism: premier-presidentialism and president-parliamentarism. Under premier-presidentialism, the prime minister and cabinet are exclusively accountable to the assembly majority, where the assembly chooses the prime minister and cabinet and remove them from office with a vote of no confidence. This subtype is used in France, Mali, Sri Lanka, Burkina Faso, Senegal, Portugal, Romania, Poland, Mongolia, Macedonia, Lithuania, Niger, Bulgaria, Madagascar, and Ukraine after 2005.
Under president-parliamentarism, the prime minister and cabinet are dually accountable to the president and the assembly majority, where the president chooses the prime minister and the cabinet but must have the confirmation of the assembly. To remove a prime minister or the cabinet the president can dismiss either or the assembly can remove them via a vote of no confidence. This form of semi-presidentialism is much closer to pure presidentialism. This subtype is used in Namibia, Mozambique, Armenia, Peru, Taiwan, Russia, Georgia, and Ukraine between 1996-2005. It was used in Germany during the Weimar Republic.
Division of Powers [ edit ] 
The powers that are divided between president and prime minister can vary greatly between countries. In France, for example, in case of cohabitation when the president and the prime minister come from opposing parties, the president is responsible for foreign policy and the prime minister for domestic policy. [ 2 ] In this case, the division of powers between the prime minister and the president is not explicitly stated in the constitution, but has evolved as a political convention. In Finland, by contrast, this particular aspect of the separation of powers was explicitly stated in the constitution until 2000: "foreign policy is led by the president in cooperation with the cabinet".
Cohabitation [ edit ] 
Further information: Cohabitation (government) 
Semi-presidential systems may sometimes experience periods in which the President and the Prime Minister are from differing political parties. This is called "cohabitation", a term which originated in France when the situation first arose in the 1980s. Cohabitation can create an effective system of checks and balances or a period of bitter and tense stonewalling, depending on the attitudes of the two leaders, the ideologies of their parties, or the demands of their constituencies.
In most cases, cohabitation results from a system in which the two executives are not elected at the same time or for the same term. For example, in 1981, France elected both a Socialist president and legislature, which yielded a Socialist premier. But whereas the president's term of office was for seven years, the National Assembly only served for five. When, in the 1986 legislative election, the French people elected a right-centre Assembly, Socialist President Mitterrand was forced into cohabitation with a rightist premier.
However, in 2000, amendments to the French Constitution reduced the length of the French President's term from seven to five years. This has significantly lowered the chances of cohabitation occurring, as parliamentary and presidential elections may now be conducted within a shorter span of each other.
Republics with a semi-presidential system of government [ edit ] 
Main article: List of countries by system of government A Semi-presidential systems Algeria, Armenia, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde (Cabo Verde) [ 3 ] , Democratic Republic of the Congo (Congo-Kinshasa) , Djibouti, East Timor (Timor-Leste) [ 3 ] , Egypt, France, Georgia, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Palestine, Portugal, Romania, Russia, SAo TomA and PrAncipe [ 3 ] , Senegal, Sri Lanka, Syria, Taiwan (Republic of China), Tajikistan, Tunisia, Ukraine, . 
See also [ edit ] 
Parliamentary system, List of countries by system of government, Presidential system, . 
Notes [ edit ] 
^ Bahro, Bayerlein, and Veser, 1998. , ^ See article 5, title II, of the French Constitution of 1958. Jean Massot, QUELLE PLACE LA CONSTITUTION DE 1958 ACCORDE-T-ELLE AU PRESIDENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE?, Constitutional Council of France website , ^ a b c OctAvio Amorim Neto; Marina Costa Lobo (2010). "Between Constitutional Diffusion and Local Politics: Semi-Presidentialism in Portuguese-Speaking Countries". Social Science Research Network . Retrieved 2014-06-06 . , References [ edit ] 
Steven D. Roper. Are All Semipresidential Regimes the Same?, Maurice Duverger. 1978 .Achec au roi. Paris., Maurice Duverger. 1980.aA New Political System Model: Semi-Presidential Governmenta European Journal of Political Research, (8) 2, pp.165a87., Giovanni Sartori. 1997. Comparative constitutional engineering. Second edition. London: MacMillan Press., Horst Bahro, Bernhard H. Bayerlein, and Ernst Veser. Duverger's concept: Semi-presidential government revisited. European Journal of Political Research. Volume 34, Number 2 / October, 1998., Matthew SAberg Shugart. Semi-Presidential Systems: Dual Executive and Mixed Authority Patterns. Graduate School of International Relations and Pacific Studies, University of California, San Diego. September 2005., Dennis Shoesmith. Timor-Leste: Divided Leadership in a Semi-Presidential System Asian Survey. March/April 2003, Vol. 43, No. 2, Pages 231a252, J. Kristiadi. Toward strong, democratic governance . Indonesia Outlook 2007 - Political June 30, 2008 The Jakarta Post, Frye, T. 1997. A politics of institutional choice: Post-communist presidencies. Comparative Political Studies, 30, 523-552, Goetz, K.H. 2006. aPower at the Centre: the Organization of Democratic Systems, a in Heywood, P.M. et al.. Developments in European Politics. Palgrave Macmillan, Arend Lijphard. 1992. Parliamentary versus presidential government. Oxford University Press, Nousiainen, J. 2001. aFrom Semi-Presidentialism to Parliamentary Government: Political and Constitutional Developments in Finland.a Scandinavian Political Studies 24 (2): 95-109 June, Rhodes, R.A.W. 1995. "From Prime Ministerial Power to Core Executive" in Prime Minister, cabinet and core executive (eds) R.A.W. Rhodes and Patrick Dunleavy St. Martin's Press, pp.11a37, Shugart, M.S. and J.Carrey. 1992. Presidents and assemblies: Constitutional design and electoral dynamics. Cambridge University Press., Shugart, M.S. 2005. Semi-Presidential Systems: Dual Executive and Mixed Authority Patterns., Canas, Vitalino - aThe semi-presidential systema, Zeitschrift fAr auslAndisches Affentliches Recht und VAlkerrecht (Heidelberg Journal of International Law), Band 64 (2004), number 1, p. 95-124., Veser, Ernst. Semi-Presidentialism-Duverger's Concept a A New Political System Model., . 
External links [ edit ] 
Governing Systems and Executive-Legislative Relations. (Presidential, Parliamentary and Hybrid Systems), United Nations Development Program (n.d.)., Blog of Robert Elgie, . Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Semi-presidential_system and oldid=632595803" Categories: Forms of government, Political systems, . Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from November 2010, All articles needing additional references, Articles lacking in-text citations from October 2011, All articles lacking in-text citations, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, AvaAe'a, DNDDDNNDD, CatalA, AeAtina, Deutsch, TTTTTTTTTT, IIIIIIII, EspaAol, UOOOU, FranAais, Gaelg, Galego, aae/Hak-kA-ngA, iei, OOOOOOO, Hrvatski, Bahasa Indonesia, DNDD, Italiano, LatvieAu, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, Occitan, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, Scots, Simple English, SlovenAina, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Suomi, Svenska, aaa, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, Tiang Viat, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 5 November 2014 at 19:45.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
