
Politics of Serbia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of Serbia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Serbia , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Serbia , Constitution Constitutional Court, . , Executive President (list) Tomislav NikoliA , Government Prime Minister Aleksandar VuAiA First Deputy Prime Minister Ivica DaAiA , . , Legislature National Assembly President: Maja GojkoviA Current membership , Opposition Leader: Bojan PajtiA , . , Judiciary Supreme Court of Cassation, . , Elections Recent elections Presidential: 2008, 2012, . Legislative: 2008, 2012, 2014, . Provincial: 2008, 2012, . Local: 2008, 2012, 2014, . , Political parties, . , Administrative divisions Municipalities and cities, Districts, Regions, . , . , Foreign relations EU accession, Diplomatic missions, Political status of Kosovo, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , The politics of Serbia function within the framework of a parliamentary democracy. The prime minister is the head of government, while the president is the head of state. Serbia is a parliamentary republic.
Contents
1 Government 1.1 Executive , 1.2 Legislature , . , 2 Elections , 3 International Organizations , 4 See also , 5 References , . 
Government [ edit ] 
Executive [ edit ] 
Main office holders Office Name Party Since President, Tomislav NikoliA, Serbian Progressive Party, 31 May 2012, Prime Minister, Aleksandar VuAiA, Serbian Progressive Party, 27 April 2014, Executive power is exercised by the prime minister, who heads a cabinet. The prime minister is chosen by the National Assembly on the proposal of the president, who names the designate after consultations with all parliamentary leaders. Cabinet ministers are nominated by the prime minister and confirmed by the National Assembly.
Legislature [ edit ] 
National Assembly of Serbia in Belgrade. 
Legislative power is vested in the National Assembly, which is composed of 250 proportionally elected deputies by secret ballot.
Current assembly (since April 23, 2014) 
Template:Serbian parliamentary election, 2014
Elections [ edit ] 
Main article: Elections in Serbia 
Serbia uses the multi-party system, with numerous political parties in which no one party often has a chance of gaining power alone, this results in the formation of coalition governments. Elections are held on the parliamentary, provincial and local level, and are scheduled every four years, while presidential elections are scheduled every five years.
International Organizations [ edit ] 
UN, OSCE, Council of Europe, BSEC, NATO Partnership for Peace, CEFTA, ICC, IMF, World Bank, Southeast European Cooperation Process, Stability Pact for Southeastern Europe, Southeast European Cooperative Initiative, Central European Initiative
Serbia is currently an official candidate for membership in the European Union and also a candidate for the World Trade Organization [ 1 ] (WTO) and was [ 2 ] expected to join by 2013.
See also [ edit ] 
Constitution of Serbia, List of Ambassadors from Serbia, List of political parties in Serbia, . 
References [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Politics of Serbia ., ^ World Trade Organization, Country Profile, Serbia , ^ few steps away from concluding WTO accession negotiations , v , t , e , . Politics of Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Serbia , Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_Serbia and oldid=608535703" Categories: Politics of Serbia, . Hidden categories: Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DNDDDNNDD, AeAtina, IIIIIIII, FranAais, Italiano, Polski, PortuguAs, DNDNDD / srpski, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 14 May 2014 at 12:15.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
