
Sergey Mironov - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Sergey Mironov 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search For Russian footballer, see Sergey Nikolayevich Mironov. 
, This article may be expanded with text translated from the corresponding article in the Russian Wikipedia . (March 2014) Click [show] on the right to read important instructions before translating. View a machine-translated version of the Russian article. , Google's machine translation is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. , Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. , After translating, {{TranslatedruDDNDDDD, DDNDDD DDNDDDDDDN}} must be added to the talk page to ensure copyright compliance. , For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation. , . , Sergey Mironov
DDNDDD DDNDDDD , Chairman of the Federation Council In office 
5 December 2001a 18 May 2011, President Vladimir Putin
Dmitry Medvedev, Preceded by Yegor Stroyev, Succeeded by Valentina Matviyenko, Personal details Born Sergey Mikhailovich Mironov 
( 1953-02-14 ) February 14, 1953 (age61) 
Pushkin, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Nationality Russian, Political party Komsomol
(1967 - 1985 yy.), Russian Party of Life
(2002-2006 yy.), A Just Russia
(from 2006-present), . , Spouse(s) Mironova Irina Yurievna, Children Son Jaroslav, Daughter Irina, Signature , Website www.mironov.info
www.mironov.ru, Sergey Mikhailovich Mironov (Russian: DDNDDID DDNDIDDDDDN DDNDIDDD ; born February 14, 1953) is a Russian politician. He was Chairman of the Federation Council, the upper house of the Russian parliament, from 2001 to 2011. He leads the faction A Just Russia in the Parliament of Russia.
Contents
1 Biography , 2 Personal , 3 Honours and awards , 4 References , 5 External links , . 
Biography [ edit ] 
In 1967 joined the Komsomol.
In the 1970s, Sergey Mironov served in the airborne troops in the Soviet Army. In 1973 elected deputy secretary committee of Komsomol on ideological educational work at the Leningrad Mining Institute. After graduating from the Institute worked as an engineer-geophysicist. After a brief time of working as an entrepreneur, he entered politics and, in 1994, was elected deputy of the St. Petersburg Legislative Assembly. In June 2000, he was elected vice-Chairman of the St. Petersburg Legislative Assembly and, in 2001, entered the Federation Council of Russia as a representative of St. Petersburg. In December 2001, Sergey Mironov was elected to be a Speaker of the Federation Council. Since February 2003, Sergey Mironov has been the Chairman of the Council of Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of Statesa members of the Commonwealth of Independent States and since April 2003 a Chairman of the Russian Party of Life. Sergey Mironov is from (Saint Petersburg).
Mironov was a candidate in the 2004 presidential election. He was not considered to be a serious candidate and was quoted as saying: "We all want Vladimir Putin to be the next president." [ citation needed ] He polled less than one per cent of the vote.
In October 2006, he became the leader of the new left-wing opposition party A Just Russia (DDNDDDDDDDDN DDNNDN), which was formed by uniting Rodina, Mironov's Russian Party of Life, and the Russian Pensioners' Party. This effectively makes him the leader of the opposition as the three parties together would be stronger than the Communist Party of the Russian Federation.
Mironov has several times proposed an amendment to the Russian constitution that would allow the President to be elected for 3 consecutive 5 or 7 year terms. In 2007, Boris Gryzlov, leader of the rival United Russia party, said that changing the constitution would be unacceptable. Mironov is considered to be more socialistic oriented, as he pushes for setting up special agricultural exchanges for state purchases of agricultural goods and for more state intervention in regulating prices of basic food stuff.
In the March 2012 presidential election, he received 3.86f the votes. [ 1 ] 
In March 2014 was included in list of Russian government sanctioned individuals because of their direct or alleged indirect involvement in the 2014 Crimean crisis [ 2 ] [ 3 ] [ 4 ] On 25 July 2014, amidst an armed insurgency in Eastern Ukraine, [ 5 ] the Ukrainian Interior Ministry launched criminal proceedings against Mironov for alleged financial support to the armed insurgents. [ 6 ] 
Personal [ edit ] 
Sergey Mironov during a visit to Poland in 2010 
Third wife: Mironova Irina Yurievna - officer apparatus to the Interparliamentary Assembly of the CIS. [ 7 ] They have a son and a daughter.
Mironov has an official blog at sergey_mironov. This was confirmed as authorized by a statement on his official website ([1]).
In 2008, President Vladimir Putin awarded Mironov the Order of Merit for the Fatherland, 3rd degree.
In 2011, after an initiative of United Russia in Saint Petersburg Legislative Assembly, Mironov was recalled from the Federation Council.
Honours and awards [ edit ] 
This article incorporates information from the equivalent article on the Russian Wikipedia . Order of Merit for the Fatherland, 3rd class (14 February 2008) - for outstanding contribution to the strengthening and development of Russian statehood and parliamentarism, Jubilee Medal "300 Years of the Russian Navy", Medal "In Commemoration of the 300th Anniversary of Saint Petersburg" (2003), Medal "In Commemoration of the 1000th Anniversary of Kazan" (2005), Collar of the Order of Merit of Peru (2005), Medal of Honour (South Ossetia, October 9, 2009) - for outstanding contribution to the maintenance of peace and stability in the Caucasus, active support in upholding the independence of South Ossetia and its international recognition, help in restoring the ruined economy of the republic, Order of St. Sergius, 1st class (Russian Orthodox Church, 2008) and 2nd class (2003), Medal "For military cooperation" (Ministry of Internal Affairs of Russia, 2005), Badge of Honour "For merits in development of parliamentarism" and Certificate of Merit of the Federal Assembly of Russian Federation, Badge "For merits in strengthening cooperation with the Accounts Chamber of the Russian Federation" (2006), Medal "For outstanding contribution to the Collector business in Russia", Three times awarded personal firearms - Makarov, PMM and Vector pistols, Honorary Doctor of Nizhny Novgorod State University, Bashkir State University (2006), National Academy of Sciences of Armenia, Russian State Social University, Mongolian University of Science and Technology, Far Eastern State University of Communications, Moscow State Forest University, Slavonic University (Moldova, 2007), Khakassia State University NF Katanova and Russian-Tajik Slavonic University, Professor Emeritus of the North-West Academy of Public Administration (2004), Perm State Technical University and Bryansk State University, Honorary Professor of South-Ural State University (2003) and Moscow State Pedagogical University, Honorary Citizen of Makhachkala (2006), . 
Order the "Community"
References [ edit ] 
^ The results of the elections of the President of Russia 2012 , ^ "EU sanctions list includes Russian commanders, Crimea PM". Reuters . 17 March 2014 . Retrieved 18 March 2014 . , ^ http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2014/03/17/fact-sheet-ukraine-related-sanctions , ^ "Ukraine-related Designations". US Department of Treasury. 2014-03-20. , ^ Ukraine crisis timeline, BBC News , ^ https://news.pn/en/criminal/109976 , ^ Russia profile , External links [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Sergey Mikhailovich Mironov ., Official web site in Russia, . 
v , t , e , . Chairmen of the Federation Council of Russia , Vladimir Shumeyko, Yegor Stroyev, Sergey Mironov , Aleksander Torshin (acting), Valentina Matviyenko, . , Persondata Name, Mironov, Sergey, Alternative names, Short description, Russian politician, Date of birth, February 14, 1953, Place of birth, Pushkin, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Date of death, Place of death, Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Sergey_Mironov and oldid=621321082" Categories: 1953 births, Living people, People from Saint Petersburg, Members of the Federation Council of Russia, Recipients of the Order of Merit for the Fatherland, 3rd class, Recipients of the Order of St. Sergius, A Just Russia politicians, Candidates for President of Russia, People of the 2014 Crimean crisis, . Hidden categories: Articles to be expanded from March 2014, All articles to be expanded, Articles needing translation from Russian Wikipedia, Articles containing Russian-language text, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from October 2012, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
Afrikaans, OUOOOUO, AzErbaycanca, AeAtina, Deutsch, Eesti, IIIIIIII, FranAais, OOOOOOO, Nederlands, aeaee, Polski, PortuguAs, DNNNDDD, Suomi, DDNDNND/tatarAa, DDNDNDNNDD, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 15 August 2014 at 07:56.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
