
Shipbuilding in Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Shipbuilding in Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article does not cite any references or sources . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2013) , Shipbuilding is a developed industry in Russia.
Almaz Shipbuilding Company plant in Saint Petersburg 
The main short-term plan of the industry is the Complex Program to Advance Production of the Shipbuilding Industry on the Market between 2008 and 2015, which was approved by the Russian Government in October 2006. It envisages the establishment of a scientific center at the Krylov Institute, two engineering centers and three shipbuilding centers, the Western, Northern and Far Eastern Centers.
The main long-term plan is the "Strategy for developing the shipbuilding industry until 2020 and the future perspective".
Contents
1 Shipyards 1.1 Included United Shipbuilding Corporation (state corporation) 1.1.1 Western region (center in St. Petersburg) , 1.1.2 Northern Region (center in Arkhangelsk) , 1.1.3 Far East Region (center in Vladivostok , 1.1.4 Southern Region , 1.1.5 Design Bureau , . , 1.2 Other , . , 2 See also , 3 References , . 
Shipyards [ edit ] 
Included United Shipbuilding Corporation (state corporation) [ edit ] 
Western region (center in St. Petersburg) [ edit ] 
Name Location Year of foundation types of vessels 33-rd factory ships repair, Baltiysk, 1889, ship repair, Plant "Nizhny Novgorod ship", Bor, Nizhny Novgorod Oblast, 1911, ships and auxiliary fleet, Vyborg Shipyard, Vyborg, 1948, trial of high complexity, drilling platforms for the development of offshore marine, ships small and medium tonnage, Baltic Shipyard "Yantar", Kaliningrad, 1945, combat and civilian vessels, Moscow shipbuilding and ship repair facility, Moscow, 1933, yachts, river passenger ships, marker vessels, boats, Factory "Krasnoye Sormovo", Nizhny Novgorod, 1849, court civil fleet. hardware modules for shelf development, rescue submersibles, Admiralty Shipyard, Saint Petersburg, 1704, submarines, cargo ships, boats, Baltic Shipyard, Saint Petersburg, 1856, warships, heavy civilian ships for transportation of various goods, icebreakers (with nuclear power plants and diesel), Proletarsky zavod (Proletarian factory), Saint Petersburg, 1826, marine equipment, Sredne-Nevskiy Shipyard, Pontoon village, Kolpinsky District, Saint Petersburg, 1912, missile boats (corvettes), mine countermeasures ships, patrol ships, work and passenger ships, Severnaya Verf, Saint Petersburg, 1912, frigates, corvettes, cargo ships, supply vessels offshore drilling platforms, repair, Kronstadt Naval Plant, Kronstadt, 1858, ship repair, Svetlyy enterprise "ERA", Svetly, Kaliningrad Oblast, 1969, electrical work on ships, repair, installation, commissioning and testing of the ship's electrical and power distribution equipment manufacturer, Kriushinsky Shipyard, Kriushi village, Novoulyanovsk, 1975, shipbuilding and ship repair, Northern Region (center in Arkhangelsk) [ edit ] 
Name Location Year of foundation types of vessels Arkhangelsk branch "176th factory ship repair", Arkhangelsk, 1949, ship repair, 35th factory ship repair, Murmansk, 1938, comprehensive repairs ships of the Navy, 82nd factory ship repair, Murmansk, 1947, repairing of ships (including submarines and icebreakers with nuclear power plant), Base fleet maintenance, Murmansk, 1959, ship repair, 10th Order of the Red Banner of Labour factory ship repair, Polyarny, Murmansk Oblast, 1935, ship repair, Ship Repair Centre "Zvyozdochka", Severodvinsk, 1946, repair, modernization and refurbishment of nuclear submarines, dismantlement of nuclear submarines, manufacture of propellers, construction of civil vessels, production association "Sevmash", Severodvinsk, 1939, nuclear submarines, tugs, cargo ships, Shipyard "Nerpa", Snezhnogorsk, Murmansk Oblast, 1966, repair, maintenance and disposal of nuclear submarines of the Northern Fleet of the Russian Navy, Far East Region (center in Vladivostok [ edit ] 
Name Location Year of foundation types of vessels Dalnevstochny zavod "Zvezda" (Far East Plant "Zvezda"), Bolshoy Kamen, 1954, fish trawlers;repair and refurbishment of submarines, including nuclear submarines 3rd generation, surface ships of any class and destination (both civilian and military), disposal of nuclear submarines, Northeast Repair Center, Vilyuchinsk, 1957, repair of nuclear and diesel submarines, surface ships, auxiliary vessels, weapons nomenclature ground forces and air defense, disposal of nuclear submarines, Ship Repair Center "Dalzavod", Vladivostok, 2012 (merger of the holding company "Dalzavod" and 178th ship repair plant), repair of surface ships and submarines (currently closed for plant modernization), 92nd Order of the Red Banner of Labour factory ship repair, Vladivostok, ship repair, Vostok-Raffles (joint venture United Shipbuilding Corporation and CIMC Raffles Offshore (Singapore) Limited (Singapore), Vladivostok, 2010, drilling platforms (now the plant is under construction), 30th factory ship repair, Dunay, Primorsky Krai, repair of warships, Amur Shipbuilding Plant, Komsomolsk-on-Amur, 1936, cargo ships, fishing boats, special vessels, Khabarovsk plant marine engineering of A. Gorky, Khabarovsk, 1946, marine electrical and hydraulic winches and kranoy small and medium-duty trucks, ejector pumps, marine heat exchangers, hydraulic feeder cargo on deck, tools, jigs and fixtures for the civil courts and Navy ships, Khabarovsk Shipyard, Khabarovsk, 1953, boats for various purposes, passenger ships, fishing trawlers, refrigerators, barges, boats, support vessels for the fleet (tugs, bunkering, oil skimmers, pontoons, vessels pads), multipurpose hovercraft amphibious type and transport hovercraft for the oil and gas industry, Southern Region [ edit ] 
Name Location Year of foundation types of vessels Shipyard "Lotus", Narimanov, Astrakhan Oblast, 1978, block topside modules of fixed offshore platforms designed for drilling and production of oil and gas on the continental shelf seas, cargo ships, Novorossiysk factory ship repair, Novorossiysk, 1918, repair of sea and river vessels, 5th factory ship repair, Temryuk, 1982, ship repairing, Tuapse factory ship repair, Tuapse, 1934, ship repairing, Design Bureau [ edit ] 
Name Location Year of foundation scope Design bureau "Astramarin", Astrakhan, 2002, Perform design work on projects for hydrocarbon exploration and production offshore the Russian Federation and the Caspian region, Research institute "Bereg", Vladivostok, 1976, development of ship-borne instruments, Far East Design Institute "Vostokproektverf", Vladivostok, 1948, development projects of shipbuilding and ship repair plants, Zelenodolskoye Design Bureau, Zelenodolsk, Russia, 1949, design of ships and vessels, as well as support their construction, development projects of modernization, advice and assistance in the design, experiment and test, design and manufacture of marine engineering, Scientific and Production Association "Screw", Moscow (design bureau), Borovsk (pilot plant), 1946, creation and testing of all types of experimental marine propulsion, both for the Navy and for the national economy, Special Design and Technological Bureau of Design and Technology Bureau electrochemistry with experimental plant, Moscow, 1941, An electrochemical regeneration system of automatic control of the air and the composition of the atmosphere in the living encapsulated objects, electrochemical generators of hydrogen and oxygen with different performance, electrochemical oxygen concentrators and carbon dioxide, electrochemical power sources, technology producing, purifying, storing and transporting hydrogen, including the extra-pure hydrogen, termosorbtsionnye hydrogen compressors of various capacities, medium and high pressure, Design bureau "Vimpel", Nizhny Novgorod, 1927, design for all requirements, including foreign ones, classification societies and technical maintenance of the vessels of various types and purposes, Central Design Bureau for Hydrofoil them. R.E. Alekseeva, Nizhny Novgorod, 1951, development of ground effect vehicle, hydrofoils, hovercraft, boats, Northern Design Bureau, Saint Petersburg, 1946, design surface warships (cruisers, destroyers, frigates, corvettes and boats), St. Petersburg Naval Machinery Bureau "Malachite" Academician N.N. Isanina, Saint Petersburg, 1948, drafting submarines, Rubin Design Bureau, Saint Petersburg, 1926, designing submarines as diesel-electric and nuclear, Central Design Bureau "Iceberg", Saint Petersburg, 1947, designing powerful icebreakers for Arctic icebreaking cargo ships, multipurpose icebreakers-procurers for offshore oil, multipurpose offshore vessels and supply vessels offshore oil, floating bases for technical and general service vessels with nuclear power plants, port icebreakers, research and hydrographic Vessel, Central Marine Design Bureau "Almaz", Saint Petersburg, 1949, designing high-speed boats, surface ships small and medium displacement, amphibious hovercraft, ship anti-mine defense, as well as ships and special purpose ships and floating docks, Research Design and Technological Bureau "Onega", Severodvinsk, 1975, Technological and design software repair, recovery and conversion of technical readiness of nuclear submarines, diesel-electric submarines and surface ships, Other [ edit ] 
Name Location Year of foundation Parent company types of vessels Leningrad shipyard "Pella", Saint Petersburg, 1950, Pella holding, tugs, pilot boats, boats, other vessels, Almaz Shipbuilding Company, Saint Petersburg, 1933, Ships and hovercraft, patrol boats, special purpose ships, sailing and motor yachts, speedboats, Shipyard "Vympel", Rybinsk, 1930, medium-and low-tonnage sea and river vessels, civil and military boats, Yaroslavsky Shipyard, Yaroslavl, 1920, VP Finsudprom, small anti-submarine and patrol boats, speed boats for different purposes with a displacement of 10 to 100 tons, amphibious patrol and amphibious hovercraft, support vessels for emergency service fleet displacement of up to 1, 400 tons, river and sea speed passenger vessels up to 150 people, conservation and fishing boats, river tankers for oil and edible fats floating pumping stations, ships, leisure and tourism, Novoladozhsky Shipyard, Novaya Ladoga, 1940, river-sea vessels up to 100 meters long, boats, yachts, including aluminum alloys, Nevsky shipbulding and ship repair plant, Schlisselburg, 1913, North-Western Shipping Company, tankers, freighters, tugs, office-crew boats, ships technical fleet and fleet software, Kostroma Marine Engineering Plant, Kostroma, 1934, River boats of KS, Zelenodolsky Plant. A. M. Gorky, Zelenodolsk, 1895, Ak Bars Holding, ships and special purpose ships; Court of goods by sea, river, sea-river, lake, other steel; high-speed passenger vessels of light alloys, hydrofoils, planing vessels, Volgograd Shipyard, Volgograd, 1931, seiners trawlers, oil tankers, chemical tankers and bulk carriers for different purposes for river, mixed "river-sea", marine and sailing conditions, Shipbuilding and ship repair plant them. Butyakova C. H, Zvenigovo, 1860, Pushers, service-crew boats (motor yacht), Azov Shipyard, Azov, 1928, small boats and yachts for individual orders, oil waste collection vessels, dredgers, Commercial center Sudomarket, Primorsko-Akhtarsk, 1962, Group Doninflot, Fishing vessels, tugs, dive boats, oil skimmer, floating rigs, semi-submersible drilling rigs, directors booms, buoys, Oka shipyard, Navashino, 1907, Universal Cargo Logistics Holding, oil tankers and dry cargo vessels of medium mixed swimming; container ships, special vessels, barges, Sosnovka Shipyard, Sosnovka, Kirov Oblast, 1924, boats, hovercrafts, Feodosia shipbuilding company "More", Primorskyi, Republic of Crimea, 1938, high-speed ships and vessels dynamically supported (hydrofoils, hovercraft, on the cavity, planing), pleasure yachts and boats with aluminum-magnesium alloys, Sevastopol Marine Plant, Sevastopol, 1783, ships and vessels of various types of destination; ship repair, Zaliv Shipbuilding yard, Kerch, Republic of Crimea, 1938, Holding company AvtoKrAZ, Various ships, Akhtubinsky shipbuilding and ship repair plant, Akhtubinsk, 1910, Vega group of companies, barges, docks, dredgers;repairing of ships, Nakhodka ship repair plant, Nakhodka, 1951, ship repairing, Sakhalinremflot, Kholmsk, 1949, ship repairing, Shipyard "Volga", Nizhny Novgorod, 1970, Russian financial-industrial groups (FIGs) "Speed Ships", hydrofoils (passenger ships, cargo ships, salvage ships, patrol boats, boats for recreation), Redan, Saint Petersburg, 1901, Russian financial-industrial groups (FIGs) "Speed Ships", planing boats, Svir Shipyard, township Nikolsky, Podporozhsky District, Leningrad Oblast, 1940, Russian financial-industrial groups (FIGs) "Speed Ships", boats and hovercraft, concrete floating pontoons, Krasnoyarsk shipyard, Krasnoyarsk, 1929, shallow-draft vessels for small rivers, AKS-Invest, Nizhny Novgorod, 1991, amphibious passenger hovercraft types Mars-700M, Mars-702, TA-33 and Mars-3000, water-jet boat cruise Transal, water-jet passenger boats Irtysh, water-jet cargo boat refrigerator Pelikan, sea cruise hydrofoils Sokol, jetskis Flagman, sea water jet multi-purpose boat Jupiter, Aerohod, Nizhny Novgorod, 1999, amphibious hovercraft types Khivus-3, Khivus-4, Khivus-6, Khivus-10, See also [ edit ] 
List of shipyards of the Soviet Union, List of Russian shipbuilders, List of shipyards of the Soviet Union, List of Russian shipbuilders, Defense industry of Russia, Russian Navy, Future of the Russian Navy, Russian floating nuclear power station, . 
References [ edit ] 
v , t , e , . Economy of Russia , History Soviet Union, Privatization, 1998 financial crisis, Monetary reforms in Russia (1991, 1993, 1998), National Priority Projects, National champions, Stabilization Fund, Great Recession in Russia, Medvedev modernisation programme, Timeline of largest projects, . , Natural resources Timber, Mining, Aluminium, Oil reserves, Energy, Nuclear power, Geothermal power, Renewable energy, . , Agriculture Fishery, Hunting, Forestry, . , Industry Engineering, (Aircraft, Automotive, Tractor, timber and agricultural machinery, Defence, Shipbuilding , Space industry, Rolling stock manufacturers), Metallurgy, (Pipe Industry), Petroleum industry, Chemical industry, Science and technology, Food industry, . , Infrastructure Telecommunications, Transport Rail, Vehicle registration plates, . , . , Services Grocery retailing, Tourism, Gambling, Real estate, . , Finance Russian ruble, Account Chamber, Banking (Banks , Central Bank of Russia) , Federal budget, Moscow Exchange, National Pension Fund, Social Insurance Fund, Tax Code, Billionaires, . , Regional economies Natural resources of Primorsky Krai, Federal subjects by GRP, Federal subjects by GDP per capita, Federal subjects by HDI, Federal subjects by unemployment rate, . , Economic regions Central, Ural, North Caucasus, Volga, West Siberian, East Siberian, Volga-Vyatka, Northwestern, Central Black Earth, Far Eastern, Northern, . , Other Companies, Trade unions, . , Category, Commons, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding , Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , This Russia-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v , t , e , . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Shipbuilding_in_Russia and oldid=630344367" Categories: Economy of Russia, Russia stubs, . Hidden categories: Articles lacking sources from September 2013, All articles lacking sources, All stub articles, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DNNNDDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 20 October 2014 at 07:16.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
