
Socialist law - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Socialist law 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2007) , Socialist law or Soviet law denotes a general type of legal system which has been used in communist and formerly communist states. It is based on the civil law system, with major modifications and additions from Marxist-Leninist ideology. There is controversy as to whether socialist law ever constituted a separate legal system or not. [ 1 ] If so, prior to the end of the Cold War, socialist law would be ranked among the major legal systems of the world.
While civil law systems have traditionally put great pains in defining the notion of private property, how it may be acquired, transferred, or lost, socialist law systems provide for most property to be owned by the state or by agricultural co-operatives, and having special courts and laws for state enterprises. [ citation needed ] 
Many scholars argue that socialist law was not a separate legal classification. [ 2 ] Although the command economy approach of the communist states meant that most types of property could not be owned, the Soviet Union always had a civil code, courts that interpreted this civil code, and a civil law approach to legal reasoning (thus, both legal process and legal reasoning were largely analogous to the French or German civil code system). Legal systems in all socialist states preserved formal criteria of the Romano-Germanic civil law; for this reason, law theorists in post-socialist states usually consider the Socialist law as a particular case of the Romano-Germanic civil law. Cases of development of common law into Socialist law are unknown because of incompatibility of basic principles of these two systems (common law presumes influential rule-making role of courts while courts in socialist states play a dependent role). [ citation needed ] 
Contents
1 Soviet legal theory , 2 Characteristic traits , 3 Chinese Socialist law , 4 See also , 5 Notes , 6 Further reading , . 
Soviet legal theory [ edit ] 
Soviet law displayed many special characteristics that derived from the socialist nature of the Soviet state and reflected Marxist-Leninist ideology. Vladimir Lenin accepted the Marxist conception of the law and the state as instruments of coercion in the hands of the bourgeoisie and postulated the creation of popular, informal tribunals to administer revolutionary justice. One of the main theoreticians of Soviet socialist legality in this early phase was PAteris StuAka. [ citation needed ] 
Alongside this utopian trend was one more critical of the concept of "proletarian justice", represented by Evgeny Pashukanis. A dictatorial trend developed that advocated the use of law and legal institutions to suppress all opposition to the regime. This trend reached its zenith under Joseph Stalin with the ascendancy of Andrey Vyshinsky, when the administration of justice was carried out mainly by the security police in special tribunals. [ citation needed ] 
During the de-Stalinization of the Nikita Khrushchev era, a new trend developed, based on socialist legality, that stressed the need to protect the procedural and statutory rights of citizens, while still calling for obedience to the state. New legal codes, introduced in 1960, were part of the effort to establish legal norms in administering laws. Although socialist legality remained in force after 1960, the dictatorial and utopian trends continued to influence the legal process. Persecution of political and religious dissenters continued, but at the same time there was a tendency to decriminalize lesser offenses by handing them over to people's courts and administrative agencies and dealing with them by education rather than by incarceration. [ citation needed ] 
By late 1986, the Mikhail Gorbachev era was stressing anew the importance of individual rights in relation to the state and criticizing those who violated procedural law in implementing Soviet justice. This signaled a resurgence of socialist legality as the dominant trend. It should be noted, however, that socialist legality itself still lacked features associated with Western jurisprudence.
Characteristic traits [ edit ] 
Socialist law is similar to common law or civil law but with a greatly increased public law sector and decreased private law sector. [ 3 ] 
partial or total expulsion of the former ruling classes from the public life at early stages of existence of each socialist state; however, in all socialist states this policy gradually changed into the policy of "one socialist nation without classes", diversity of political views directly discouraged., the ruling Communist party was eventually subject to prosecution through party committees in first place., abolition of private property considered as a primary goal of socialism, if not its defining characteristic, thus near total collectivization and nationalization of the means of production;, subordination of the judiciary to the Communist Party, low respect for privacy, extensive control of the party over private life;, low respect for intellectual property as knowledge and culture was considered a right for human kind, and not a privilege as in the free market economies., extensive social warrants of the state (the rights to a job, free education, free healthcare, retirement at 60 for men and 55 for women, maternity leave, free disability benefits and sick leave compensation, subsidies to multichildren families, ...) in return for a high degree of social mobilization., the judicial process lacks adversary character; public prosecution is considered as "provider of justice.", . 
A specific institution characteristic to Socialist law was the so-called burlaw court (or, verbally, "court of comrades", Russian NDDDNDNDNDDD NND) which decided on minor offences. [ citation needed ] 
Chinese Socialist law [ edit ] 
Among the remaining communist governments, some (most notably the People's Republic of China) have added extensive modifications to their legal systems. In general, this is a result of their market-oriented economic changes. However, some communist influence can still be seen. For example, in Chinese real estate law there is no unified concept of real property; the state owns all land but often not the structures that sit on that land. A rather complex ad hoc system of use rights to land property has developed, and these use rights are the things being officially traded (rather than the property itself). In some cases (for example in the case of urban residential property), the system results in something that resembles real property transactions in other legal systems. [ citation needed ] 
In other cases, the Chinese system results in something quite different. For example, it is a common misconception that reforms under Deng Xiaoping resulted in the privatization of agricultural land and a creation of a land tenure system similar to those found in Western countries. In actuality, the village committee owns the land and contracts the right to use this land to individual farmers who may use the land to make money from agriculture. Hence the rights that are normally unified in Western economies are split up between the individual farmer and the village committee. [ citation needed ] 
This has a number of consequences. One of them is that, because the farmer does not have an absolute right to transfer the land, he cannot borrow against his use rights. On the other hand, there is some insurance against risk in the system, in that the farmer can return his land to the village committee if he wants to stop farming and start some other sort of business. Then, if this business does not work, he can get a new contract with the village committee and return to farming. The fact that the land is redistributable by the village committee also ensures that no one is left landless; this creates a form of social welfare. [ citation needed ] 
There have been a number of proposals to reform this system and they have tended to be in the direction of fully privatizing rural land for the alleged purpose of increasing efficiency. These proposals have usually not received any significant support, largely because of the popularity of the current system among the farmers themselves. There is little risk that the village committee will attempt to impose a bad contract on the farmers, since this would reduce the amount of money the village committee receives. At the same time, the farmer has some flexibility to decide to leave farming for other ventures and to return at a later time. [ citation needed ] 
See also [ edit ] 
General Legal systems of the world, Chinese law, Cuban Legal System, Cuban law, . Soviet Union Law of the Soviet Union, Ministry of Justice of the USSR, Procurator General of the USSR, . 
Notes [ edit ] 
^ Quigley, J. (1989). "Socialist Law and the Civil Law Tradition". The American Journal of Comparative Law 37 (4): 781a808. doi:10.2307/840224. JSTOR840224. , ^ http://arjournals.annualreviews.org/doi/abs/10.1146/annurev.lawsocsci.3.081806.112849 , ^ http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=eERrPWIQn2kC and pg=PA331 and dq="Socialist+law" and hl=en and ei=rQY-TPrODY6UjAf49cX5Aw and sa=X and oi=book_result and ct=result and resnum=5 and ved=0CD4Q6AEwBA#v=onepage and q="Socialist law" and f=false , Further reading [ edit ] 
Stuchka, P.I. (1988). Selected Writings on Soviet Law and Marxism . Robert Sharlet, Peter B. Maggs, and Piers Beirne (eds.). Armonk, N.Y.: M.E. Sharpe. ISBN0-87332-473-0. OCLC17353762. , Evenson, Debra (2003). Law and Society in Contemporary Cuba (2nd ed.). The Hague: Kluwer Law International. ISBN90-411-2165-X. OCLC52976800. , . 
v , t , e , . Law , Core subjects Administrative law, Constitutional law, Contract, Criminal law, Deed, Equity, Evidence, International law, Law of obligations, Procedure Civil, Criminal, . , Property law, Public law, Restitution, Statutory law, Tort, . , Other subjects Agricultural law, Aviation law, Banking law, Bankruptcy, Commercial law, Competition law, Conflict of laws, Conservation law, Construction law, Consumer protection, Corporate law, Cyberlaw, Election law, Energy law, Entertainment law, Environmental law, Family law, Financial regulation, Health law, Immigration law, Intellectual property, International criminal law, International human rights, International slavery laws, Labour law, Law of war, Maritime law, Media law, Military law, Physical law, Probate Estate, Will and testament, . , Product liability, Public international law, Scientific law, Space law, Sports law, Tax law, Trust law, . , Sources of law Charter, Constitution, Custom, Divine right, Human rights, Natural and legal rights, Precedent Case law, . , . , Law making Codification, Decree Edict, Executive order, Proclamation, . , Legislation Delegated legislation, Regulation, Rulemaking, . , Promulgation, Repeal, Statutory law Statute, Act of Parliament, Act of Congress, . , Treaty, . , Legal systems Civil law, Common law, Chinese law, Legal pluralism, Natural law, Religious law Canon law, Hindu law, Jewish law, Sharia, . , Roman law, Socialist law , Statutory law, Xeer, Yassa, . , Legal theory Critical legal studies, Comparative law, Feminist, Law and economics, Legal formalism, History, International legal theory, Principle of legality, Rule of law, Sociology, . , Jurisprudence Adjudication, Administration of justice, Criminal justice, Dispute resolution, Fiqh, Lawsuit/Litigation, Legal opinion, Legal remedy, Judgment, Judicial review, Jurisdiction, Jury, Justice, Practice of law Attorney, Barrister, Counsel, Lawyer, Legal representation, Prosecutor, Solicitor, . , Question of fact, Question of law, Trial, Trial advocacy, Trier of fact, Verdict, . , Legal institutions Bureaucracy, The bar, Civil society, Court, Election commission, Executive, Judiciary, Law enforcement, Legal education Law school, . , Legislature, Military, Police, Tribunal, . , Category , Index , Outline , Portal , . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Socialist_law and oldid=603953531" Categories: Soviet law, Socialism, Legal codes, Legal systems, . Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from June 2007, All articles needing additional references, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from January 2011, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DNDDDNNDD, EspaAol, LietuviA, aeaee, PortuguAs, DNNNDDD, DDNDNDNNDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 13 April 2014 at 01:36.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
