
State Council (Russia) - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
State Council (Russia) 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Russia , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Russia , Constitution, Law, . Impeachment, Mental Health Law, Russian Criminal Code, Tax Code, . , Presidency President: Vladimir Putin, . Presidential Administration, Security Council, State Council , . , Executive Prime Minister: Dmitry Medvedev, . Government, Cabinet (14th) , . , Legislature Federal Assembly, Federation Council, State Duma, . , . , Judiciary Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, Prosecutor General, Supreme Court of Arbitration, Legal system, . , Elections Presidential elections, Legislative elections, Central Election Commission, Electoral geography, Political parties, . , Foreign relations United Nations, ArabaIsraeli conflict, . , Related topics Administrative divisions, Federal subjects, Regional parliaments, Armed forces, Martial law, . , Civic Chamber, Accounts Chamber, E-Government, Opposition, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , Meeting of the State Council (6 September 2008) 
The State Council (Russian: DDNNDDNNNDDDDND DDDDN ) is an advisory body to the Russian head of state, which deals with issues of the highest importance to the state as a whole. The council was established by a decree of the President of Russia, Vladimir Putin, on September 1, 2000.
History [ edit ] 
The current State Council is the third in the history of Russia. It is the successor of the State Council of the USSR, which was the successor of the State Council (Russian Empire).
The President signed the decree forming the State Council on the basis of articles 80 and 85 of the Constitution and the newly passed Federal Law aOn the Procedure for Forming the Federation Council of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation.a The President formed the State Council in order to harness the potential of regional leaders. In doing so, he took into account the requests and proposals of Federation Council, the upper house of the Russian parliament members and State Duma deputies.
In its capacity as an advisory body, the State Council aids the President in discharging his duties to ensure the concerted functioning and interaction of various governmental bodies. The Chairman of the State Council is the President of Russia. Upon his order, the acting Secretary of the State Council is currently one of the aides to the President, Alexander S. Abramov.
The Presidential Domestic Affairs Directorate is responsible for the administrative support of the State Council.
The Council is made up of the leaders (governors and presidents) of Russiaas Federal Subjects. Other persons may be appointed to the Council at the Presidentas discretion.
On September 2, 2000, Putin established the Presidium of the State Council, whose task is to prepare for State Council sessions. The Presidium comprises the leaders of seven constituent territories representing each of the seven federal districts. Members of the Presidium rotate every six months, as envisaged by the regulations of the State Council and the Presidential Decree on the Councilas Presidium.
The State Council considers issues of particular importance to the state, such as the development of governmental institutions, economic and social reforms and other objects affecting the public as a whole. The sessions are the principal medium for the work of the State Council and are held four times a year without a rigid timetable. Each session focuses on a single issue. On the eve of a session of the State Council, the Presidium meets to discuss the following dayas issue.
It has also become accepted practice to discuss some issues at joint sessions of the State Councilas Presidium and the Security Council, sometimes with the participation of other presidential advisory bodies. [ 1 ] 
See also [ edit ] 
State Council of Imperial Russia, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ "State Council". Office of the President of Russia . Retrieved 17 August 2014 . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=State_Council_(Russia) and oldid=621728073" Categories: Government of Russia, 2000 establishments in Russia, . Hidden categories: Articles containing Russian-language text, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DDDDNNNDDN, LietuviA, DNNNDDD, Tiang Viat, . Edit links This page was last modified on 18 August 2014 at 05:11.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
