
Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
The Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation (Russian: DDNNDDDND DDDDDDDDDDDDNNNDD DDDNNDNDDNDD DDDDDD DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD ) is the President of Russia in accordance with Article 87 of the Russian Constitution.
Contents
1 Legal basis , 2 Powers , 3 Symbols , 4 References , . 
Legal basis [ edit ] 
Official emblem of the Supreme Commander-in-Chief, created in 2009 
On May 7, 1992 Russian President Boris Yeltsin issued a decree a467 "On taking office, the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation". [ 1 ] Powers of the President, as Commander In Chief, assigned by the Law of the Russian Federation of December 9, 1992 a 4061-I "On changes and amendments to the Constitution of the Russian Federation". [ 2 ] On December 25, 1993 the current Constitution of Russia entered into force, which confirmed the status of the President as the Supreme Commander-in-Chief.
Powers [ edit ] 
In accordance with Article 83 of the Constitution of the Russian Federation:
Approve military doctrine of the Russian Federation, Appoint and dismiss the Supreme Command of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation., In accordance with Article 4 of the Federal law "On Defense":
Determine the main directions of military policy of the Russian Federation;, Provide guidance to the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, other troops, military formations and bodies;, In the case of aggression or direct threat of aggression against the Russian Federation, the emergence of armed conflict against the Russian Federation, general or partial mobilization, enters the territory of the Russian Federation or in particular areas of martial law with immediate notification of the Federation Council and State Duma, orders of the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation on the conduct of military operations;, Enact regulations of war and cease their action, form and abolish executive authorities for a period of war in accordance with federal constitutional law on martial law;, In accordance with federal laws, make the decision on bringing the Russian Armed Forces, other troops, military formations and bodies to carry out tasks with the use of weapons, not by their intended use;, Approve the concepts and plans for the construction and development of the Russian Federation Armed Forces, other troops, military formations and bodies, the Plan of the Russian Armed Forces, mobilization plan of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, as well as plans for the transfer (mobilization plans) to work in wartime public authorities of the Russian Federation, bodies of state power of subjects of the Russian Federation, local self-government and the economy, plans to create reserves wealth of state and mobilization reserves and federal government program for operational equipment in the Russian Federation for purposes of defense;, Approve federal government programs and the development of weapons of defense industrial complex;, Approve nuclear programs and other special tests, and authorizes these tests;, Approve a single list of military posts to be filled senior officers in the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, other troops, military formations and bodies, and the total number of military posts to be filled colonels (captains 1st rank) in the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, other troops, military formations and bodies, confers high military ranks, appoint personnel to the military posts, for which the state provides the higher ranks of officers, freeing them from their military posts and dismiss them from military service in the manner prescribed by federal law;, Approve the structure of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, other troops, military formations up to and including associations and bodies, as well as the number of staff members of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, other troops, military formations and bodies;, Make decision on the deployment and redeployment of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, other troops, military formations from the link above;, Approve military regulations, the provisions of the battle flag of the military, naval ensign of the Russian Federation, the order of military service, military councils, the military police stations, military transport duties;, Approve the regulations of the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, as well as provisions on the management bodies of other troops, military formations and bodies;, Approve regulations on territorial defense and civil defense plan;, Approve plans to deploy in the Russian Federation with nuclear warheads, as well as facilities for the elimination of weapons of mass destruction and nuclear waste;, Negotiate and sign international treaties of the Russian Federation in the field of defense, including treaties of mutual defense, collective security, the reduction and limitation of armed forces and armaments on the participation of the Russian Armed Forces in peacekeeping and international security;, Issue decrees on conscription of Russian Federation citizens for military service, military training (with the number of recruits Russian citizens and their distribution between the Russian Federation Armed Forces, other troops, military formations and bodies), as well as dismissal from the military service of citizens of the Russian Federation of passing military service in the manner prescribed by federal law;, Limit the number of members of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, other troops, military formations and bodies on secondment to the federal authorities;, Exercise other powers in the field of defense, entrusted to him by the Constitution of the Russian Federation, federal constitutional laws, federal laws and laws of the Russian Federation., Symbols [ edit ] 
September 21, 1995 Minister of Defence of the Russian Federation was approved by a sketch of the flag-Chief of the Armed Forces of Russia. The flag follows the pattern of the Standard of the President of the Russian Federation, but has a 2:3 aspect ratio. [ 3 ] The flag raised on the ships of the Russian Navy when the Supreme Commander was on them. On May 5, 2009, Russian President Dmitry Medvedev has established an official emblem of the Supreme Commander-in-Chief. [ 4 ] 
References [ edit ] 
^ DDDD DNDDDDDDND DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD DN 7 DDN 1992 DDDD a 467 AD DNNNDDDDDD D DDDDDDNNN DDNNDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDDDDNNNDDD DDDNNDNDDNDD DDDDDD DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDDA , ^ DDDDD DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD DN 9 DDDDDNN 1992 DDDD a 4061-I ADD DDDDDDDDNN D DDDDDDDDDNN DDDNNDNNNDD (DNDDDDDDD DDDDDD) DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD a DDNNDDA , ^ DDDDD DNDDDDDDND DDNNDD , ^ DDDD DNDDDDDDND DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD DN 5 DDN 2009 DDDD a 502 ADD NNNDDDDDDD NDDDDDN DDNNDDDDDD DDDDDDDDDDDDNNNDDD DDDNNDNDDNDD DDDDDD DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDDA , v , t , e , . Russian Armed Forces , Leadership Supreme Commander-in-Chief : President of Russia, Chief of the General Staff, Minister of Defence, . , General History, Military doctrine, Russia and weapons of mass destruction, Organization of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, Awards and Emblems, General Staff Building (Saint Petersburg), General Staff Building (Moscow), military bases abroad, Military budget of the Russian Federation, . , Previous military districts Leningrad Military District, Moscow Military District, Volga-Urals Military District, North Caucasus Military District, Siberian Military District, Far East Military District, . , Current military districts Western Military District (headquarters: Saint Petersburg) , Southern Military District (Rostov-on-Don) , Central Military District (Ekaterinburg) , Eastern Military District (Khabarovsk) , . , Fleets of the Russian Navy Baltic Fleet, Black Sea Fleet Caspian Flotilla, . , Northern Fleet Arctic Sea Flotilla, . , Pacific Fleet, . , Services Ground Forces Special Forces, Signal Troops, . , Navy Infantry, Aviation, . , Air Force, . , Independent Aerospace, Airborne, Rear Services Railway Troops, . , Strategic Missile Troops, . , Departments in the Ministry of Defense Main Intelligence Directorate, Main Directorate of Military Police, Missiles / Artillery, 12th Chief Directorate, Main Agency of Automobiles and Tanks, Main Agency of Military Medicine of the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation, Central Television and Radio Studio, . , Former Space Forces, . , Equipment Ground Forces' equipment, Navy ships, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Supreme_Commander-in-Chief_of_the_Armed_Forces_of_the_Russian_Federation and oldid=558247216" Categories: Russian commanders in chief, Russian law, Politics of Russia, 1992 establishments in Russia, Commanders in chief, . Hidden categories: Articles containing Russian-language text, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DNNNDDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 4 June 2013 at 06:41.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
