
Tax Code of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Tax Code of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Taxation An aspect of fiscal policy, Policies Government revenue, Tax revenue, Non-tax revenue, Tax law, Tax bracket, Tax threshold, Exemption, Credit, Deduction, Tax shift, Tax cut, Tax holiday, Tax advantage, Tax incentive, Tax reform, Tax harmonization, Tax competition, Double taxation, Representation, Unions, Medical savings account, Tax, tariff and trade, . , Economics Price effect, Excess burden, Tax incidence, Laffer curve, Optimal tax, Theory, Optimal capital income taxation, . , Collection Revenue service, Revenue stamp, Tax assessment, Taxable income, Tax lien, Tax refund, Tax shield, Tax residence, Tax preparation, Tax investigation, Tax shelter, Private tax collection, Tax farming, . , Noncompliance Tax avoidance, Tax evasion, Tax resistance, Tax haven, Smuggling, Black market, Transfer mispricing, Unreported employment, Tax shelter, . , Distribution Tax rate, Progressive, Regressive, Proportional, . , Types Direct, Indirect, Per unit, Ad valorem, In rem, Capital gains, Carbon, Consumption, Dividend, Ecotax, Excise, Georgist, Gift, Gross receipts, Income, Inheritance (estate), Land value, Payroll, Pigovian, Property, Sales, Sin, Single, Stamp, Steering, Turnover, Value-added (VAT), Corporate profit, Excess profits, Windfall profits, Negative (income), Flat, . , International Financial transaction tax, Currency transaction tax, Tobin tax, Spahn tax, Tax equalization, Tax treaty, European Union FTT, . , Trade Custom, Duty, Tariff Import, Export, . , Tariff war, Free trade, Free trade zone, Trade agreement, . , Religious Church tax, Eight per thousand, Teind, Tithe, Fiscus Judaicus, Leibzoll, Temple tax, Tolerance tax, Jizya, Kharaj, Khums, Nisab, Zakat, . , By country List of countries by tax rates, Tax revenues as P, . Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Canada, China, Colombia, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Lithuania, Namibia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Palestinian territories, Peru, Philippines, Russia , Singapore, South Africa, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, United Kingdom, United States, Uruguay, . , v , t , e , . , The Russian Tax Code (Russian: DDDDDDDND DDDDDN DDNNDDNDDD DDDDNDNDD ) is the primary tax law for the Russian Federation. The Code was created, adopted and implemented in three stages.
The first part, enacted July 31, 1998, also referred to as the General Part , regulates relationships among taxpayers, tax agents, tax-collecting authorities and legislators, tax audit procedures, resolution of disputes, and enforcement of law.
The second part, enacted on August 5, 2000, defines specific taxes, rates, payment schedules, and detailed procedures for tax calculations. It was significantly amended in 2001a2003 with additions like the new corporate profits tax section and the new simplified tax system for small business. The Code is subject to regular changes which are effected through federal laws.
The Code is designed as a complete national system for federal, regional and local taxes but excludes customs tariffs. Rules and rates of regional and local taxation must conform to the framework established by the Code. Taxes or levies not listed explicitly by the Code or enacted in violation of its specific provisions are deemed illegal and void. [ 1 ] 
The Russian tax system tends to use moderate flat or regressive tax rates. It is highly centralized for a federal state and relies heavily on proceeds from oil and natural gas corporations. In 2006 the tax burden on oil companies exceeded 45 percent of net sales (compared to 12 percent in construction and 16.5 percent in telecommunications). [ 2 ] Rates for oil-related taxes and tariffs, unlike regular taxes, are set not by the Tax Code but by government decree. The Russian Ministry of Finance estimates that revenues regulated by the Tax Code will account for 68 percent of federal revenue in 2008 fiscal year, rising to 73 percent in 2010. [ 3 ] 
Contents
1 History 1.1 Taxation in Russia before the Code , 1.2 Enactment of Part One , 1.3 Enactment of Part Two , 1.4 Major amendments and revisions , . , 2 Federal taxes , 3 Regional and local taxes , 4 Special taxation frameworks , 5 Taxation of foreigners and foreign investments , 6 See also , 7 References , 8 Notes , . 
History [ edit ] 
Taxation in Russia before the Code [ edit ] 
Prior to enactment of the Code, Russian tax legislation was based on a patchwork of laws enacted in the last years of the Soviet Union (notably, the 1990 laws on personal and corporate income taxes), the 1991 law "On the framework of the tax system in the Russian Federation" and subsequent federal, regional and local laws and executive decrees; the underlying Soviet rules of accounting and business practices remained largely unchanged. Taxation in 1992a1998 was substantially decentralized: regional and local authorities were entitled to invent their own taxes, or could, on the contrary, create tax havens for "domestic off-shores".
In his February, 1995 presidential address Boris Yeltsin proposed to re-centralize and streamline the tax system through a unified Tax Code. [ 4 ] Yeltsin declared that the Code's objective was to promote investments in manufacturing, while at the same time fully collecting taxes, and specifically demanded abolition of arbitrary tax preferences and tax evasion. He admitted that the state had no clearly formulated approaches to important taxation problemsathese had to be resolved in 1995a1996. One year later, Yeltsin reiterated the call to curtail "new techniques" of tax evasion and "regional self-financing". He stated that the forthcoming enactment of the Code was only a start, that the government-sponsored draft was incomplete and that the proposed rates were excessive. [ 5 ] 
The only tax law enacted in this period and still effective in 2008 is the individual property tax (enacted in 1991, with amendments). Individual property tax is explicitly authorized by the Code but exists as a standalone law. [ 6 ] 
Enactment of Part One [ edit ] 
The Government of Russia presented the first official draft of Part One to the State Duma in February 1996, [ 7 ] four months prior to the 1996 presidential election; Part Two was presented in April 1997. [ 8 ] Deputy Minister of Finance Sergey Shatalov promoted the bill. After more than a year of refinements, the Duma passed the bill in the first hearing (due process requires three stages, or hearings) on July 19, 1997. [ 9 ] In JuneaOctober the Duma accumulated over 4, 500 proposed amendments to the bill, making further progress impractical. [ 10 ] In October 1997 the Duma and Government clashed over the federal budget for 1998 fiscal year, and the Government recalled the bill to appease its adversaries. When this stage ended, the Duma refused to come back to the old bill; Yury Luzhkov, major opponent of centralized tax collection, declared that "the tax code is already dead. It stinks". [ 11 ] 
The Duma restarted the process, inviting competing drafts to be filed by January 31, 1998. [ 12 ] By the deadline the Duma had received ten alternatives, as well as the new government version; this time sponsored by Minister of Finance Mikhail Zadornov and his deputy Mikhail Motorin. They made it clear that any alternative draft would face veto by the President, at the same time incorporating ideas from the competing drafts. On April 16, 1998 the Duma finally chose the Government draft over the alternatives with a 312 to 18 vote. [ 11 ] 
Enactment of the Code was hastened by the imminent 1998 Russian financial crisis. Sergei Kiriyenko, appointed Prime Minister in April 1998, included the Code in the government's crisis package. Yeltsin threatened to impose the Code by decree if the Duma failed to quickly enact it. [ 13 ] On July 16, 1998 the Duma discarded budget-balancing proposals, [ 14 ] but approved the third, and final, hearing on Part One; [ 15 ] the next day it was stamped by the Federation Council and finally signed by the President on July 31, 1998 (to become effective on January 1, 1999 with certain exclusions). [ 16 ] It was officially published in Rossiyskaya Gazeta on August 6. Anti-crisis actions failed, and on August 17, 1998 Russia defaulted on its government bonds.
Enactment of Part Two [ edit ] 
While Part One was instrumental in re-designing day-to-day relationships between taxpayers and the state, it did not address specific taxes; thus, in 1999a2000 taxpayers still paid multiple taxes with the old rates. Part Two, implemented under Vladimir Putin (enacted in August 2000, effective January 1, 2001) promulgated a flat 13 percent personal income tax rate, and replaced various social contributions with a regressive unified social tax (UST). In 2001 collection of personal income tax increased by 26 percent (adjusted for inflation). Tax compliance improved; an estimated one third of previously untaxed jobs were added to the tax rolls, although economists cannot separate the effects of tax rates from those of general economic recovery and improved law enforcement. [ 17 ] [ 18 ] 
A commitment to abolish sales-based taxes was reflected in the abolition of the municipal housing tax (2000) and, eventually, the road tax and retail sales tax (2003). To offset the resulting drop in municipal revenue, Putin temporarily increased corporate profit tax rates for 2001 to 35 percent (43 percent for banks); the framework of profit taxation had yet to be redefined. [ citation needed ] 
Major amendments and revisions [ edit ] 
The second, and probably most important, stage of Putin's tax reformsa Chapter 25 of the Code dealing with corporate profitsawas enacted in August 2001 (effective January 1, 2002). The tax rate was decreased to 24 percent for all taxpayers. Dividend taxation decreased to 6 percent (15 percent for non-residents). At the same time, the Code abolished tax breaks, broadening the tax base. Chapter 25 also instituted a special set of accounting rules for profit tax purposes; businesses could choose either to harmonize their statutory and tax accounting or maintain two sets of books. Gaps between statutory and tax accounting persisted, precluding complete harmonization.
In December 2001 legislators created a simplified tax system for agriculture. [ 19 ] A string of amendments in July 2002 resulted in present-day simplified tax system for small businesses, imputed tax on retail operations, [ 20 ] and redesigned the taxation of private and corporate motor vehicles. [ 21 ] 
On January 1, 2004 the VAT rate decreased from 20 percent to 18 percent. [ 22 ] In 2007a2008 Putin, both as president and later as prime minister, promoted a decrease in the VAT rate to 12 percent by 2010; [ 23 ] Putin's allies Sergey Chemezov and Minister of Economics Elvira Nabiullina support this proposal. [ 24 ] Minister of Finance Alexey Kudrin opposed the change due to the need to finance the Pension Fund and the rearmament of Russian troops. [ 25 ] 
On January 1, 2005 Russia abolished the tax on advertisingathe last remaining provision from the early 1990s.
The government slowly but regularly increases excise taxes on alcohol, tobacco, gasoline and motor oil; the current Code provides a detailed plan for raising the rates until 2010 fiscal year. [ 26 ] 
In the wake of the 2008 Russian financial crisis, September 18, 2008, the Russian Ministry of Finance declared short-term tax changes:
The VAT rate for 2008 would remain fixed at 18 percent;, By the end of 2008, the unified social tax should be either raised or totally redesigned to help balance social expenditures. [ 27 ] In October 2008 the government agreed on changes to the UST mechanism and rate curve, effectively splitting the unified tax into separate payments. All wages and salaries up to 415, 000 roubles (16, 210 US dollars) per year are subject to a 26 percent pension contribution; income in excess of 415, 000 roubles is not taxable. Adding other social contributions, the maximum marginal rate rose to 34 percent. [ 28 ] , . 
Federal taxes [ edit ] 
Distinction between federal , regional and local taxes depends on the level of legislature that is entitled to establish rates for that kind of tax. Federal rates are explicitly set by the Tax Code; regional tax rates are limited by the Code but set by regional laws. Federal taxes such as the personal income tax may forwarded to regional governments; corporate profit taxes are split into federal and regional shares defined by the Code.
VAT is the largest source of federal revenue (32 percent in 2008). [ 3 ] VAT on imports (13 percent of federal revenue) is 18 percent (10 percent on selected foodstuffs) prior to release from the customs warehouse. VAT on domestic goods is calculated as the difference of VAT on sales (at the earliest of cash receipt or shipment of goods on credit) and input VAT on accrued costs.
VAT paid to suppliers that has not yet materialized into services or goods cannot be credited against current tax liability. VAT paid to suppliers on export sales is refunded in full if the seller receives payment for exports within 6 months of shipment. Refund of export VAT has become a major source of fraud, while law-abiding exporters have to resort to court action to get the refund. [ citation needed ] 
VAT exemption extends to targeted companies in medicine, pharmaceutical industry, education, public housing and transportation; to private homes and apartments; to traditional banking and insurance services; to sales of exclusive copyright on software, integrated circuit topologies and similar high technology contracts.
VAT ineligibility is a very common charge by tax authorities. An April 2004 ruling by the Constitutional Court of Russia that increased corporate tax liabilities was revoked by Supreme Arbitrage Court in December 2004. [ 29 ] The Federal Tax Service resolved the same case one year later. [ 30 ] 
Tax on mineral resource extraction (MRET) is the second largest source of federal revenue regulated by the Code; most of it is paid by oil companies. Tax rates for oil (per metric ton) are set by the government; its formula refers to world market prices (same for all domestic producers) and a "depletion factor", specific to each oil field. The latter has been regularly criticized as a source of corruption and unfair competitive advantage. New oil fields in Sakha, Irkutsk Oblast, Krasnoyarsk Krai are exempt from MRET altogether. [ citation needed ] 
Rates for other mineral resources are set in the Code as a fixed percentage of their market value (from 3.8 percent for potassium salts to 17.5 percent for gas condensate) or, in case of natural gas, at a fixed amount per unit volume. The tax is paid monthly based on physically extracted tonnage, not sales. A related but separate Water tax is paid by organizations physically extracting surface or subterranean fresh water, as well as by hydroelectric powerplants and timber rafting loggers. [ citation needed ] 
Corporate profit tax (CPT) is the largest source of regional revenues. The rate for 2009 is 20 percent on pre-tax profits, 2 percent to the federal budget and 18 percent to regional budgets. The rate decreased from 24 percent effective in 2001a2008 in the wake of the 2008 Russian financial crisis. [ 31 ] 
Expense deductibility limitations were gradually eliminated in the years following enactment of Chapter 25 , and as of August, 2008 practically all business expenses are fully deductible. The Code retains a principal statement that deductible expenses must be "economically justified and properly evidenced with documents". [ 32 ] The tax authorities manage the specifics. Taxpayers resolve disputes through court litigation; resolutions of upper-tier Arbitrage Courts, clarifying gray areas of tax accounting, form a separate layer of tax environment that augments the Code.
Double taxation of dividends is completely eliminated when a Russian shareholder owns at least 50 percent of Russian or foreign subsidiary paying dividends (excluding foreign entities located in tax haven jurisdictions) for at least 365 days and the investment is worth more than 500 million roubles. All other dividends received by Russian shareholders are subject to 9 percent tax. [ 33 ] 
Excise tax is levied on manufacturers of raw and refined alcohol, alcoholic drinks stronger than 1.5 percent by volume, including beer; gasoline and diesel fuel, motor oils; passenger cars and motorcycles with engines in excess of 150 h.p.; tobacco products. The Code specifies strict licensing rules for oil refineries and alcohol distillers. Rates increased until 2010; by 2010, excise taxes of a typical cigarette pack will reach 15a30 percent, which is less than its European counterpart. [ original research? ] [ 34 ] Since 2007, cigarettes have been taxed based on a percentage of manufacturers' suggested retail price (MSRP). [ 35 ] This approach made MSRP mandatory and quickly led to government-induced retail price fixing.
Unified social tax (UST) combines previously separate contributions to Pension Fund, Social Security Fund and the mandatory medical insurance.
UST is accrued on all employer-to-employee payments which are deductible for profit tax purposes; non-deductible payments like dividends or charity are not subject to UST. [ 36 ] Pensions, severance pay, and travel expenses are not taxable. The schedule is regressive: annual income up to 280, 000 roubles is taxed at 26 percent; marginal rate for income above 600, 000 roubles is 2 percent. Rates in agriculture and in special high technology parks are lower. Note that a significant part of mandatory contributions to Pension Fund is not included in UST.
Pension Fund deficits [ 37 ] have caused calls to increase UST rates or switch from regressive to flat rates. A proposal for a flat UST was initiated in July 2008 by INSOR, Dmitry Medvedev's think tank [ 38 ] [ 39 ] and further detailed in Putin's proposals made October 1, 2008. [ 28 ] 
Workplace accident insurance, enacted later, is not part of UST or the Tax Code. Each employer must contribute to group accident insurance. The rate varies between 0.2 percent and 8.5 percent, depending on the type of business. The rate for trading companies is 0.2 percent and for transportation companies 0.7 percent. [ 40 ] 
Personal income tax (PIT) is levied individually normally at 13 percent. There is no joint filing. Employers withhold income taxes, thus the taxpayers whose only taxable income was paid by employer do not need to file a tax returnaexcept to claim a refund for itemized deductions. The most important deductions are for home purchase (once a life), and education and medical expenses. Deductions require documentation and are subject to limitations. Tax returns are mandatory for registered entrepreneurs and professionals (lawyers, notaries, etc.), sellers of personal assets and recipients of other income. Out of 10.4 million registered residents of Moscow, only 94 thousand filed tax 2006 returns and 105 thousand filed for 2007. [ 41 ] State pensions and alimony are normally not taxable, as well as bank interest (unless it exceeds the refinancing rate set by Central Bank of Russia).
Capital gains from asset sales are taxable only if the seller owned the asset for less than 3 years. A special tax rate of 35 percent applies to lottery and gambling wins and excess of bank interest received over the threshold interest computed using refinancing rate. Interest rates are usually below the threshold, making interest tax free.
Withholdings are remitted to the employer's registered region, rather than the employee's. The governments of Moscow Oblast, Tver Oblast and Leningrad Oblast object to this policy. They are net exporters of suburban manpower to Moscow and Saint Petersburg. In March 2008 Moscow Oblast initiated a federal bill intended to change the system in favor of suburban territories. [ 42 ] 
Other federal taxes prescribed by the Code include a tax on animal and water wildlife , levied upon licensed hunters and fisheries, and a document tax ( stamp duty ), most notably the ad valorem duty required to start civil litigation in state courts.
In 2007, the Ministry of Finance estimated that taxes will generate federal revenues as follows: [ 3 ] [ 43 ] 
Structure of federal revenue of Russia for 2008a2010 , Type of federal revenue 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY Regulated by Total revenue, billion roubles, 6, 673, 7, 421, 8, 035, Oil and gas related revenue , 37b>, 32b>, 30b>, .. Tax on mineral resources, 13td> 11td> 11td> Tax Code, .. Export tariff, 24td> 21td> 19td> Government decrees, Other revenue , 63b>, 68b>, 70b>, .. VAT on domestic sales, 19td> 24td> 25td> Tax Code, .. VAT on imports, 13td> 13td> 14td> Tax Code, .. Corporate profit tax, 8td> 8td> 8td> Tax Code, .. Import and exports tariffs (other than oil and gas), 8td> 8td> 8td> Government decrees, .. Excise taxes, 2td> 2td> 2td> Tax Code, .. Taxes on natural resources (other than oil and gas), 1td> 1td> Tax Code, .. All other taxes (including collection of arrears), 7td> 7td> 7td> Tax Code, .. Dividends and other non-tax revenue, 5td> 5td> 5td> Civil and international law, Total , 100b>, 100b>, 100b>, .. including revenue regulated by Tax Code, 68td> 71td> 73td> , Regional and local taxes [ edit ] 
All regional and local taxes in Russia are asset-related: property tax, vehicle tax, land tax and tax on gambling businesses. These taxes are assessed and paid in re . Exact rates are set by regional (property, vehicles, gambling) or municipal (land) legislators within the Code's framework.
Corporate property tax, or tax on fixed assets, is assessed on year-averaged book value of fixed assets excluding land (which is subject to land tax). Radioactive waste storage facilities, space satellites, church property and other itemized assets are specifically exempt from taxation. [ 44 ] The maximum rate is 2.2 percent; regional authorities can vary rates depending on types of taxpayers and assets. [ 45 ] This provides a method to establish disguised individual preferences, which are outlawed by the Code.
Land tax is the only local tax in Russia: its rates are set by municipal authorities (excluding the federal cities of Moscow and Saint Petersburg, where the rates are set by city legislators). The maximum rate is 0.3 percent on lands zoned for agriculture, housing and dachas, and 1.5 percent on other lands. Forest reserves and bodies of water are exempt. Land values are periodically assessed by land registrars and kept substantially below market prices. Unlike corporate property tax, land tax is paid by individual taxpayers.
Vehicle tax is levied annually on owners of motor vehicles and trailers, ships, and aircraft. Commercial ships and aircraft operated by transportation companies, agricultural, military vehicles and ambulances are exempt. The Code establishes maximum rates tied to engine power. Rates increase steeply with increasing horsepower. [ 46 ] For example, in 2009 fiscal year the city of Moscow levies 700 roubles on a 100 h.p. passenger car, 2400 roubles on 120 h.p., 12, 000 roubles on 200 h.p. and 45, 000 roubles on 300 h.p. [ 47 ] Taxation does not depend on emission levels.
Tax on gambling businesses is paid by registered gambling outlets at a flat rate per each table, slot machine or bookmaker's cash desk. The Code provides both minimum and maximum rate limits (1:5 ratio), thus prohibits establishment of tax-free gambling. For example, one slot machine is taxed at 1, 500a7, 500 roubles a year, and one table at 25, 000a125, 000 roubles a year. From July 1, 2009 gambling in Russia is banned, except in four specially designated gambling areas in remote regions. [ 48 ] Online gambling is banned. [ 49 ] 
Special taxation frameworks [ edit ] 
The set of specific federal and regional corporate taxes outlined above (i.e. regular CPT, VAT, UST and property tax), which by default is mandatory for all corporate taxpayers and registered individual entrepreneurs, is known as General taxation system . Three alternative tax systems replace the above taxes with a simplified procedure:
Imputed taxation applies to specific, typically small business, activities involving trading with general public in cash: small retail and food service outlets, hotels, repair shops, taxi companies, etc. Imputed tax, uses rates set by local authorities (per square meter of shop space, per vehicle etc.) All eligible businesses use imputed taxation. The law is also mandatory for eligible parts of larger corporations, even if they are individually insignificant. For example, a cafeteria of a large steel mill is usually considered a subject of imputed tax and the mill must account for it as a separate taxable unit (the core business remains on terms of general taxation system).
Simplified taxation system applies to small businesses with annual sales less than 60, 000, 000 rubles. Banks, insurers, foreign companies and certain other professions and businesses are not eligible. The average number of employees in the firm should not exceed 100 during the year and total assets should not exceed 100, 000, 000 roubles to be eligible. Unified tax is levied either on gross receipts at 6 percent, or on profit before income tax at 15 percent; the choice of either option, is made by the taxpayer. Simplified system prescribes a specific set of accounting rules, thus gross receipts and gross margins of eligible businesses are, usually, higher than they would be under general accounting and taxation systems.
An eligible business can elect either simplified or general taxation system at will with certain timing restrictions, which are usually once a year in December. If the business loses eligibility at any time during the year, it continues operating under simplified system until the end of the year, and then it must recalculate its tax obligations under general taxation system from the moment it became ineligible. The system does not allow taxpayers to pass prepaid input VAT to their customers; such customers who are VAT payers are unable to refund any VAT paid downstream. As a result, businesses engaged in B2B transactions prefer general taxation.
Taxation system for agriculture (including animal farms and fisheries) uses a flat unified tax levied at 6 percent on gross margins, with its own unique set of accounting rules. There are no limitations on size of the business as long as at least 70 percent of its income is generated by sales of its farm produce.
VAT exemptions outlined in special frameworks apply only to VAT on domestic sales. VAT on imports is payable by all importers regardless of their tax framework. Likewise, the insurance premiums payable to Pension Fund of Russia are not considered part of UST and are payable by all employers.
Finally, a Product-sharing agreement framework applies to a very limited list of joint state-private enterprises, typically in oil extraction.
Taxation of foreigners and foreign investments [ edit ] 
Foreign individuals present in Russia for 183 days in a year or more are treated as residents for tax purposes and are taxed at common 13 percent rates (9 percent for dividends). If they are present in Russia for less than 183 days, they are subject to 30 percent income tax (15 percent for dividends). Wages and salaries paid to foreigners in Russia are subject to standard UST tax.
Foreign tourists cannot recover VAT on purchases made in Russia.
Branches of foreign legal entities are subject to general taxation. Foreign companies can elect to use either Russian or their homeland accounting systems. [ 50 ] Cash transfers between a branch and overseas head office and back are not subject to withholding tax and are not considered taxable income or deductible expenses.
Payments to foreign companies that have no permanent establishment in Russia [ 51 ] are subject to withholding tax at 10 percent on lease payments, 15 percent on dividends and 20 percent on all other payments other than payments for imported goods. These rates can be reduced through bilateral tax treaties.
Russian subsidiaries of foreign legal entities are treated as domestic taxpayers; unlike branches of foreign companies, cash transfers between subsidiary and its parent may be subject to withholding tax; cash transfers from parent to subsidiaries may be considered taxable income. Transfers and repayments of loans do not trigger immediate tax effects. A special thin capitalization rule penalizes subsidiaries of foreign shareholders if, instead of remitting after-tax dividends, they elect to pay interest on loans from shareholders. The Code effectively forces these companies to reclassify excessive interest into non-deductible dividends. [ 52 ] Deductibility of royalties and service fees remitted from Russia to foreign companies is frequently disputed by tax authorities and has been subject of high-profile cases against subsidiaries of PricewaterhouseCoopers, [ 53 ] Procter and Gamble and SABMiller. [ 54 ] 
See also [ edit ] 
Russian Customs Tariff, Law of the Russian Federation, . 
References [ edit ] 
(English) Accounting and Taxes in Russia, current version [22], (Russian) Tax Code of the Russian Federation, current version [23], (Russian) Moscow City law on vehicle tax, July 9, 2008 No. 33 [24], (Russian) Federal law "On state regulation of organization and management of gambling and changes to related legislation", December 29, 2006 [25], (English) Gordon B. Smith. State-Building in Russia: The Yeltsin Legacy and the Challenge of the Future. Publisher: M. E. Sharpe, 1999. ISBN 0-7656-0276-8, ISBN 978-0-7656-0276-3, (English) Doing business in Russia 2008. PriceWaterhouseCoopers, 2008 [26], (Russian) Project "TaxExperts" dedicated to free tax consultations [27], (English) Tax aspects for doing business in Russia. Taxman-CIS, 2010 [28], (Russian) Tax optimization methods [29], . 
Notes [ edit ] 
^ Dax Code, article 3 p.5. , ^ Doing business in Russia 2008, p. 47, citing official state statistics for 2006 , ^ a b c (Russian) Ministry of Finance of Russia. Key parameters of federal budget for 2008a2010 [1] , ^ Boris Yeltsin. Presidential address to the Federal Assembly, February 16, 1995 [2] , ^ Boris Yeltsin. Presidential address to the Federal Assembly, February 23, 1996 [3] , ^ Tax Code, article 15 , ^ Resolution of Government of Russia, February 2, 1996 No. 114-p , ^ Resolution of Government of Russia, April 30, 1997 No. 585-p , ^ Resolution of State Duma, June 19, 1997 No. 1575-II DD , ^ Smith, p.30 , ^ a b Smith, p.31 , ^ Resolution of State Duma, 19 November 1997 No. 1903-II DD , ^ (English) David Hoffman. Yeltsin Demands Action on Economy // Washington Post Foreign Service, June 24, 1998 [4] , ^ (English) Sharon LaFraniere. Key Yeltsin Reforms Fail in Parliament // Washington Post Foreign Service, July 18, 1998 [5] , ^ Resolution of State Duma, July 16, 1998 No. 2813-II DD , ^ Federal Law dated July 31, 2008 no.146-DD , ^ (English) Anne Ivanova; Michael Keen; and Alexander Klemm. The Russian 'flat tax' reform // Economic Policy, Vol. 20, No. 43, pp. 397a444, June 2005. , ^ (English) Gorodnichenko, Yuriy; Jorge Martinez-Vazquez; and Klara Sabirianova Peter. Lessons from the Russia's 2001 Flat Tax Reform. VOX EU, February 19, 2008 [6] , ^ Federal law dated December 29, 2001 No.187-DD; Tax Code, chapter 26.1 , ^ Federal law dated July 24, 2002 No.104-DD; Tax Code, Chapters 26.2, 26.3 , ^ Federal law dated July 24, 2002 No.110-DD; Tax Code, chapter 28 , ^ Federal law dated July 7, 2003 No. 117-DD , ^ Russia's tax reform sees VAT cut to 12a13 pct. Reuters, March 16, 2008 [7] , ^ (Russian) Chemezov demands VAT decrease to 12/ Kommersant, August 14, 2008 [8] , ^ (Russian) Minfin heads to his last fight for VAT // Izvestia, August 4, 2008 [9] , ^ Tax code, article 193.1 , ^ (English) Kudrin says decision on VAT reduction delayed till 2009 [10] , ^ a b (English) Putin's Pension Talk Scares Businesses. The Moscow Times, October 2, 2008 [11] , ^ (English) Ruling of Supreme Arbitrage Court of December 2004 - closing the book or opening the new chapter? // KPMG, January 19, 2005 [12] , ^ (English) The tax authorities have explained how to pay VAT // KPMG, January 20, 2006 [13] , ^ "Crisis will not sink Russian economy: Putin". Reuters, November 20, 2008. November 20, 2008 . Retrieved 2008-11-20 . , ^ Tax Code, article 252 p.1 , ^ Tax Code, article 284 , ^ Calculation based on rates per Tax Code, article 193.1 and MSRP range of 15 to 50 roubles , ^ Tax Code, article 187.1 defines MSRP as maximum retail price; in fact it is the price. , ^ Tax Code, article 236 p.3 , ^ (English) Douglas Busvine. Welfare the big idea for Russia's Medvedev // Reuters, January 16, 2008 [14] , ^ (Russian) UST flat rate? // Vedomosti, July 31, 2008 [15] , ^ (Russian) President's expert begin shipping // Kommersant, July 31, 2008, [16] , ^ [17] , ^ (Russian) Tax returns filed to Moscow authorities increased by 12/ Prime-TASS, April 29, 2008 [18] , ^ (Russian) Personal income tax will relocate // Rossiyskaya Gazeta, March 18, 2008 [19] , ^ Note that the table excludes regional and local revenues (thus there's no PIT or asset-based taxes), Pension Fund and medical insurance contributions (thus no UST). , ^ Tax Code, chapter 30, article 381 , ^ Tax Code, chapter 30, article 380 , ^ Tax Code, chapter 28 , ^ Moscow City law on vehicle tax, July 9, 2008 No. 33 , ^ Federal law "On state regulation of organization and management of gambling...", ch.5 and 9 , ^ Federal law "On state regulation of organization and management of gambling...", ch.5 , ^ Doing business in Russia 2008, p.43 , ^ Doing business in Russia, 2008, p.51 provides explanation on what constitutes permanent establishment for tax purposes , ^ Tax Code, article 269 p.2 , ^ (English) Russia inspects PwC office over tax claims, YUKOS // Reuters, March 9, 2007 [20] , ^ (English) Procter and Gamble Russia faces $27 mln tax claim // RIA Novosti, March 28, 2008 [21] , v , t , e , . Economy of Russia , History Soviet Union, Privatization, 1998 financial crisis, Monetary reforms in Russia (1991, 1993, 1998), National Priority Projects, National champions, Stabilization Fund, Great Recession in Russia, Medvedev modernisation programme, Timeline of largest projects, . , Natural resources Timber, Mining, Aluminium, Oil reserves, Energy, Nuclear power, Geothermal power, Renewable energy, . , Agriculture Fishery, Hunting, Forestry, . , Industry Engineering, (Aircraft, Automotive, Tractor, timber and agricultural machinery, Defence, Shipbuilding, Space industry, Rolling stock manufacturers), Metallurgy, (Pipe Industry), Petroleum industry, Chemical industry, Science and technology, Food industry, . , Infrastructure Telecommunications, Transport Rail, Vehicle registration plates, . , . , Services Grocery retailing, Tourism, Gambling, Real estate, . , Finance Russian ruble, Account Chamber, Banking (Banks , Central Bank of Russia) , Federal budget, Moscow Exchange, National Pension Fund, Social Insurance Fund, Tax Code , Billionaires, . , Regional economies Natural resources of Primorsky Krai, Federal subjects by GRP, Federal subjects by GDP per capita, Federal subjects by HDI, Federal subjects by unemployment rate, . , Economic regions Central, Ural, North Caucasus, Volga, West Siberian, East Siberian, Volga-Vyatka, Northwestern, Central Black Earth, Far Eastern, Northern, . , Other Companies, Trade unions, . , Category, Commons, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation , Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Taxation in Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Other entities European Union, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Tax_Code_of_Russia and oldid=619911816" Categories: Russian law, Tax codes, Taxation in Russia, . Hidden categories: Articles with Russian-language external links, Articles containing Russian-language text, All articles with unsourced statements, Articles with unsourced statements from September 2010, All articles that may contain original research, Articles that may contain original research from September 2010, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DDNODNNND, Deutsch, FranAais, LietuviA, DNNNDDD, . Edit links This page was last modified on 5 August 2014 at 04:07.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
