
Outline of Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Outline of Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia AA(Redirected from List of Russia-related topics) Jump to: navigation, search The Flag of Russia The Coat of arms of Russia An enlargeable map of the Russian Federation 
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Russia.
The Russian Federation , commonly known as Russia , is the most extensive country in the world, covering 17, 075, 400 square kilometres (6, 592, 800sqmi), more than an eighth of the Earthas land area. [ 1 ] Russia is a transcontinental country extending across the whole of northern Asia and 40f Europe; it spans 11 time zones and incorporates a great range of environments and landforms. With 143 million people, Russia is the eighth most populated country. Russia has the world's largest mineral and energy resources, has the world's largest forest reserves, and its lakes contain approximately one-quarter of the Earth's fresh liquid water.
Contents
1 General reference , 2 Geography of Russia 2.1 Environment of Russia 2.1.1 Geographic features of Russia , . , 2.2 Regions of Russia 2.2.1 Ecoregions of Russia , 2.2.2 Subdivisions of Russia 2.2.2.1 Republics of Russia , 2.2.2.2 Oblasts of Russia , 2.2.2.3 Krais of Russia , 2.2.2.4 Autonomous oblasts of Russia , 2.2.2.5 Autonomous okrugs of Russia , 2.2.2.6 Federal cities of Russia , 2.2.2.7 Municipalities of Russia , . , . , 2.3 Demographics of Russia , . , 3 Government and politics of Russia 3.1 Branches of the government of Russia 3.1.1 Executive branch of the government of Russia , 3.1.2 Legislative branch of the government of Russia , 3.1.3 Judicial branch of the government of Russia , . , 3.2 Foreign relations of Russia 3.2.1 International organization membership , . , 3.3 Law and order in Russia , 3.4 Military of Russia , 3.5 Local government in Russia , . , 4 History of Russia 4.1 History of Russia, by period , 4.2 History of Russia, by Region 4.2.1 Republics , 4.2.2 Krais , 4.2.3 Oblasts , 4.2.4 Federal cities , . , 4.3 History of Russia, by subject , . , 5 Culture of Russia 5.1 Art in Russia , 5.2 Sports in Russia , . , 6 Economy and infrastructure of Russia , 7 Education in Russia , 8 See also , 9 References , 10 External links , . 
General reference [ edit ] 
An enlargeable map of Russia Pronunciation:, Common English country name: Russia, Official English country name: The Russian Federation, Common endonym(s): DDNNDN ( Rossiya ), Official endonym(s): DDNNDDNDDN DDDDNDNDN ( Rossiyskaya Federatsiya ), Adjectival(s): Russian, Demonym(s):, Etymology: Name of Russia, International rankings of Russia, ISO country codes: RU, RUS, 643, ISO region codes: See ISO 3166-2:RU, Internet country code top-level domain: .ru, .su and .NN, . 
Geography of Russia [ edit ] 
An enlargeable topographic map of Russia Main article: Geography of Russia Russia is: a country, Location: transcontinental (lies in both Europe and Asia) Eastern Hemisphere, Northern Hemisphere Eurasia Europe Eastern Europe, . , Asia North Asia, . , . , . , Time zones: Kaliningrad Time a UTC+03, Moscow Time a UTC+04, Samara Time a UTC+05, Yekaterinburg Time a UTC+06, Omsk Time a UTC+07, Krasnoyarsk Time a UTC+08, Irkutsk Time a UTC+09, Yakutsk Time a UTC+10, Vladivostok Time a UTC+11, Magadan Time a UTC+12, Kamchatka Time a UTC+13, . , Extreme points of Russia High: Mount Elbrus 5, 642m (18, 510ft) a highest point in Europe, Low: Caspian Sea a28m (a92ft) a lowest point in Europe, . , Land boundaries: 20, 242km [ 2 ] , . , . Kazakhstan 6, 846 km China 3, 645 km Mongolia 3, 441 km Ukraine 1, 576 km Finland 1, 313 km Belarus 959 km Georgia 723 km, including: Abkhazia 255 km [ 2 ] South Ossetia 70 km [ 2 ] Poland 432 km Latvia 292 km Estonia 290 km Azerbaijan 284 km Lithuania 227 km Norway 196 km North Korea 18 km Coastline: 37, 653 km [ 3 ] , . Population of Russia: 142, 942, 000 people (2010 census) a 8th most populous country, Area of Russia: 17, 075, 400km 2 (6, 592, 800sqmi) a 1st largest country, Atlas of Russia, . 
Environment of Russia [ edit ] 
A satellite image of Russia Main article: Environment of Russia Climate of Russia, Environmental issues in Russia, Ecoregions in Russia, Renewable energy in Russia, Geology of Russia, National parks of Russia, Protected areas of Russia, Wildlife of Russia Fauna of Russia Birds of Russia, Mammals of Russia, . , . , . 
Geographic features of Russia [ edit ] 
Glaciers of Russia, Islands of Russia, Lakes of Russia Caspian Sea (lake with 1.3alinity, about a third the salinity of seawater. Compare with Great Salt Lake.), . , Mountains of Russia Caucasus Mountains, Ural Mountains, Volcanoes in Russia, . , Plains of Russia West Siberian Plain, . , Rivers of Russia Waterfalls of Russia, . , Valleys of Russia, World Heritage Sites in Russia, . 
Regions of Russia [ edit ] 
Economic regions of Russia Central Russia, North Caucasus, Siberia, Russian Far East, Economic regions of Russia, . 
Ecoregions of Russia [ edit ] 
Main articles: List of ecoregions in Russia and Ecoregions in Russia 
Subdivisions of Russia [ edit ] 
Main article: Subdivisions of Russia Federal subjects of Russia Federal subjects of Russia (83) Republics of Russia (21), Oblasts of Russia (46), Krais of Russia (9), Autonomous oblasts of Russia (1), Autonomous okrugs of Russia (4), Federal cities of Russia (2), . , Types of inhabited localities in Russia List of cities and towns in Russia, . , . 
Republics of Russia [ edit ] 
, Republic of Adygea, Altai Republic, Republic of Bashkortostan, Buryat Republic, Republic of Dagestan, Republic of Ingushetia, Kabardino-Balkar Republic, 8. Republic of Kalmykia
9. KarachayaCherkess Republic
10. Republic of Karelia
11. Komi Republic
12. Mari El Republic
13. Republic of Mordovia
14. Sakha (Yakutia) Republic
, 15. Republic of North OssetiaaAlania
16. Republic of Tatarstan
17. Tuva Republic
18. Udmurt Republic
19. Republic of Khakassia
20. Chechen Republic
21. Chuvash Republic
, Oblasts of Russia [ edit ] 
1. Amur Oblast
2. Arkhangelsk Oblast
3. Astrakhan Oblast
4. Belgorod Oblast
5. Bryansk Oblast
6. Chelyabinsk Oblast
7. Chita Oblast 
8. Irkutsk Oblast
9. Ivanovo Oblast
10. Kaliningrad Oblast
, 11. Kaluga Oblast
12. Kemerovo Oblast
13. Kirov Oblast
14. Kostroma Oblast
15. Kurgan Oblast
16. Kursk Oblast
17. Leningrad Oblast
18. Lipetsk Oblast
19. Magadan Oblast
20. Moscow Oblast
, 21. Murmansk Oblast
22. Nizhny Novgorod Oblast
23. Novgorod Oblast
24. Novosibirsk Oblast
25. Omsk Oblast
26. Orenburg Oblast
27. Oryol Oblast
28. Penza Oblast
29. Pskov Oblast 30. Rostov Oblast
, 31. Ryazan Oblast
32. Sakhalin Oblast
33. Samara Oblast
34. Saratov Oblast
35. Smolensk Oblast
36. Sverdlovsk Oblast
37. Tambov Oblast
38. Tomsk 39. Tver Oblast
40. Tula Oblast
, 41. Tyumen Oblast
42. Ulyanovsk Oblast
43. Vladimir Oblast
44. Volgograd Oblast
45. Vologda Oblast
46. Voronezh Oblast
47. Yaroslavl Oblast
, Krais of Russia [ edit ] 
1.Altai Krai
2.Kamchatka Krai
3.Khabarovsk Krai
, 4.Krasnodar Krai
5.Krasnoyarsk Krai
6.Perm Krai
, 7.Primorsky Krai
8.Stavropol Krai
9.Zabaykalsky Krai
, Autonomous oblasts of Russia [ edit ] 
Russia has one autonomous oblast (autonomous province), the Jewish Autonomous Oblast (shaded dark blue). 
Autonomous okrugs of Russia [ edit ] 
1. Chukotka Autonomous Okrug
2. KhantyaMansi Autonomous Okrug
3. Nenets Autonomous Okrug
4. Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Okrug
, Federal cities of Russia [ edit ] 
Moscow, Saint Petersburg, Municipalities of Russia [ edit ] 
Main article: Subdivisions of Russia A Municipal divisions 
Demographics of Russia [ edit ] 
Main article: Demographics of Russia 2002 Census, . 
Government and politics of Russia [ edit ] 
Russia has made its choice in favor of democracy. Fourteen years ago, independently, without any pressure from outside, it made that decision in the interests of itself and interests of its peoplea of its citizens. This is our final choice, and we have no way back. There can be no return to what we used to have before. And the guarantee for this is the choice of the Russian people, themselves. No, guarantees from outside cannot be provided. This is impossible. It would be impossible for Russia today. Any kind of turn towards totalitarianism for Russia would be impossible, due to the condition of the Russian society.
Vladimir Putin, statement in press release, Office of the White House Press Secretary, United States (February 24, 2005). "President and President Putin Discuss Strong U.S.-Russian Partnership" Main article: Government of Russia and Politics of Russia Form of government: federal presidential republic, Capital of Russia: Moscow, . Elections in Russia, Political parties in Russia, Taxation in Russia, . 
Branches of the government of Russia [ edit ] 
Main article: Government of Russia 
Executive branch of the government of Russia [ edit ] 
Head of state: President of Russia, Vladimir Putin State Council of the Russian Federation (advisory board to the Head of State), Presidential Administration of Russia (President's support staff), . , Head of government: Prime Minister of Russia, Dmitry Medvedev Public Chamber of Russia, 17 Ministries, 7 Federal Services, 30+ Federal Agencies, . , . 
Legislative branch of the government of Russia [ edit ] 
Federal Assembly of Russia (bicameral parliament) Upper house: Federation Council of Russia, Lower house: State Duma, . , . 
Judicial branch of the government of Russia [ edit ] 
Main article: Judiciary of Russia Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation, Supreme Court of Russia, . 
Foreign relations of Russia [ edit ] 
Main article: Foreign relations of Russia Diplomatic missions of Russia, Diplomatic missions in Russia, . 
International organization membership [ edit ] 
The Russian Federation is a member of: [ 1 ] 
Arctic Council, Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC), Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) (dialogue partner), Association of Southeast Asian Nations Regional Forum (ARF), Bank for International Settlements (BIS), Black Sea Economic Cooperation Zone (BSEC), Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO), Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), Council of Europe (CE), Council of the Baltic Sea States (CBSS), Eurasian Economic Community (EAEC), Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council (EAPC), European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) (observer), General Confederation of Trade Unions (GCTU), Group of Eight (G8), Group of Twenty Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors (G20), International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), International Criminal Court (ICCt) (signatory), International Criminal Police Organization (Interpol), International Development Association (IDA), International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRCS), International Finance Corporation (IFC), International Hydrographic Organization (IHO), International Labour Organization (ILO), International Maritime Organization (IMO), International Mobile Satellite Organization (IMSO), International Monetary Fund (IMF), International Olympic Committee (IOC), International Organization for Migration (IOM) (observer), International Organization for Standardization (ISO), International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement (ICRM), International Telecommunication Union (ITU), International Telecommunications Satellite Organization (ITSO), International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC), . , Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU), Latin American Integration Association (LAIA) (observer), Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), Nonaligned Movement (NAM) (guest), Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG), Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) (observer), Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) (accession state), Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), Organization of American States (OAS) (observer), Paris Club, Partnership for Peace (PFP), Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA), Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), United Nations (UN), United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR), United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO), United Nations Mission in Liberia (UNMIL), United Nations Mission in the Sudan (UNMIS), United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia (UNOMIG), United Nations Operation in Cote d'Ivoire (UNOCI), United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC), United Nations Security Council (permanent member), United Nations Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO), Universal Postal Union (UPU), World Customs Organization (WCO), World Federation of Trade Unions (WFTU), World Health Organization (WHO), World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), World Meteorological Organization (WMO), World Tourism Organization (UNWTO), World Trade Organization (WTO) (observer), World Veterans Federation, Zangger Committee (ZC), . , Law and order in Russia [ edit ] 
Main article: Law of Russia Capital punishment in Russia, Constitution of Russia, Crime in Russia, Human rights in Russia Racism in Russia, LGBT rights in Russia, Freedom of religion in Russia, . , Law enforcement in Russia, Media freedom in Russia, . 
Military of Russia [ edit ] 
Main article: Military of Russia Command Commander-in-chief: Ministry of Defence of Russia, . , . , Forces Army of Russia, Navy of Russia, Russian Air Force, Special forces of Russia (Spetsnaz), . , Military history of Russia, Military ranks of Russia, . 
Local government in Russia [ edit ] 
Main article: Local government in Russia 
History of Russia [ edit ] 
Main articles: History of Russia, Timeline of Russian history, and Current events of Russia 
History of Russia, by period [ edit ] 
Ancient Russia Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, Bosporan Kingdom, Khazaria, . , Early East Slavs East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, . , Kievan Rus', Mongol invasion of Rus, Tatar invasions, Volga Bulgaria, Golden Horde, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, French invasion of Russia, World War I, Russian Revolution of 1917, Russian Civil War, History of the Soviet Union Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Soviet Union in World War II World War II casualties of the Soviet Union, . , Cold War, Soviet war in Afghanistan, Dissolution of the Soviet Union, . , Russian Federation, . 
History of Russia, by Region [ edit ] 
Republics [ edit ] 
History of Adygea, History of the Altai Republic, History of Bashkortostan, History of Buryatia, History of Chechnya, History of Chuvashia, History of Dagestan, History of Ingushetia, History of Kabardino-Balkaria, History of Kalmykia, History of Karachay-Cherkessia, History of the Republic of Karelia, History of Khakassia, History of the Komi Republic, History of Mari El, History of Mordovia, History of North OssetiaaAlania, History of the Sakha Republic, History of Tatarstan, History of Tuva, History of Udmurtia, . 
Krais [ edit ] 
History of Altai Krai, History of Kamchatka Krai, History of Khabarovsk Krai, History of Krasnodar Krai, History of Krasnoyarsk Krai, History of Perm Krai, History of Primorsky Krai, History of Stavropol Krai, History of Zabaykalsky Krai, . 
Oblasts [ edit ] 
History of Amur Oblast, History of Arkhangelsk Oblast, History of Astrakhan Oblast, History of Belgorod Oblast, History of Bryansk Oblast, History of Chelyabinsk Oblast, History of Irkutsk Oblast, History of Ivanovo Oblast, History of Kaliningrad Oblast, History of Kaluga Oblast, History of Kemerovo Oblast, History of Kirov Oblast, History of Kostroma Oblast, History of Kurgan Oblast, History of Kursk Oblast, History of Leningrad Oblast, History of Lipetsk Oblast, History of Magadan Oblast, History of Moscow Oblast, History of Murmansk Oblast, History of Nizhny Novgorod Oblast, History of Novgorod Oblast, History of Novosibirsk Oblast, History of Omsk Oblast, History of Orenburg Oblast, History of Oryol Oblast, History of Penza Oblast, History of Pskov Oblast, History of Rostov Oblast, History of Ryazan Oblast, History of Sakhalin Oblast, History of Samara Oblast, History of Saratov Oblast, History of Smolensk Oblast, History of Sverdlovsk Oblast, History of Tambov Oblast, History of Tomsk Oblast, History of Tula Oblast, History of Tver Oblast, History of Tyumen Oblast, History of Ulyanovsk Oblast, History of Vladimir Oblast, History of Volgograd Oblast, History of Vologda Oblast, History of Voronezh Oblast, History of Yaroslavl Oblast, . 
Federal cities [ edit ] 
History of Moscow, History of Saint Petersburg, . 
History of Russia, by subject [ edit ] 
History of Russian culture, Economic history of the Russian Federation, Film history of Russia History of Russian animation, . , History of innovation in Russia, History of the Jews in Russia, History of the Russian language, Military history of Russia Red Army, . , Postage stamps and postal history of Russia, . 
Culture of Russia [ edit ] 
Saint Basil's Cathedral on the Red Square, Moscow Main article: Russian culture and Russians Architecture of Russia, Cuisine of Russia, Festivals in Russia, Humor in Russia, Languages of Russia Russian language, . , Material culture in Russia, Media in Russia, Museums in Russia, National symbols of Russia Coat of arms of Russia, Flag of Russia, List of Russian flags, National anthem of Russia, . , People of Russia Famous Russians, . , Prostitution in Russia, Public holidays in Russia, Records of Russia, Religion in Russia Buddhism in Russia, Christianity in Russia, Hinduism in Russia, Islam in Russia, Judaism in Russia, Sikhism in Russia, . , Russian folklore, Russian martial arts, World Heritage Sites in Russia, . 
Art in Russia [ edit ] 
Russian architecture, Art in Russia Russian avant-garde, . , Ballet in Russia, . , Cinema of Russia, Literature of Russia, Music of Russia, . , Television in Russia, Theatre in Russia, Opera in Russia, . , Sports in Russia [ edit ] 
Main article: Sports in Russia Football in Russia, . 
Economy and infrastructure of Russia [ edit ] 
Russian currency: The Ruble Main article: Economy of Russia Economic rank, by nominal GDP (2008): 8th (eighth), Agriculture in Russia, Banking in Russia Central Bank of Russia, . , Communications in Russia Internet in Russia, List of Russian-language television channels, . , Companies of Russia, Currency of Russia: Ruble ISO 4217: RUB, . , Defense industry of Russia, Economic history of Russia, Energy in Russia Energy policy of Russia, Oil industry in Russia, . , Health care in Russia, Mining in Russia, Russia Stock Exchange, Tourism in Russia, Transport in Russia Airports in Russia, Rail transport in Russia, Roads in Russia, . , Water supply and sanitation in Russia, . 
Education in Russia [ edit ] 
Main article: Education in Russia 
See also [ edit ] 
, Russia portal, Europe portal, Asia portal, Main article: Russia Index of Russia-related articles, List of international rankings, Member state of the Group of Twenty Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors, Member state of the United Nations, Outline of Asia, Outline of Europe, Outline of geography, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ a b "Russia". The World Factbook . United States Central Intelligence Agency. July 2, 2009 . Retrieved July 23, 2009 . , ^ a b c Russia recognizes Abkhazia and South Ossetia as independent states, thus bordering in total 16 countries, more than any other country. If only widely recognized states counted, Russia ties with China, each bordering 14 countries. , ^ Russia also borders the Caspian Sea, a remnant of the ancient Paratethys Sea. , External links [ edit ] 
, Russian language edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia, Find more about Russia at Wikipedia's sister projects, Definitions from Wiktionary, Media from Commons, Quotations from Wikiquote, Source texts from Wikisource, Textbooks from Wikibooks, Learning resources from Wikiversity, Wikimedia Atlas of Russia
Interfax.comaNews agency based in Moscow, Russia Profile English-language information service, RussGUS Bibliographic database of German publications on Russia (about 175 000 positions), . Government resources Russian News Agency Ria Novosti, DumaaOfficial site of the parliamentary lower house (Russian) , Federative CouncilaOfficial site of the parliamentary upper house, KremlinaOfficial presidential site, Gov.ruaOfficial governmental portal (Russian) , Russian Federation TodayaOfficial issue of the Federal Assembly (Russian) , Ministry of Foreign affairs, Russian Federal Customs Service, Central Bank of Russia, . 
v , t , e , . Outlines , General reference Culture and the arts, Geography and places, Health and fitness, History and events, Mathematics and logic, Natural and physical sciences, People and self, Philosophy and thinking, Religion and belief systems, Society and social sciences, Technology and applied sciences, . , v , t , e , . Lists by country , Country-related topics Categories , Portals , Countries and territories, International rankings(by country), Maps, Politics, Religion, Sovereign states, . , Codes Call-sign (ITU) prefixes, Country calling codes, FIFA country codes, FIPS country codes, Internet TLDs, IOC country codes, ISO country codes, NATO country codes, Ship prefixes, . , Names and symbols Anthems, Coats of arms, Demonyms, Etymologies, Flags, National emblems, National mottos, Native names, . , Politics and government Abortion law , Administrative divisions, Capital punishment , Current heads of state and government, Date of formation, Elections, First Spouses, Defence Ministers, Finance Ministers, Interior Ministers, Intelligence agencies, Legislatures(by size), Militaries(by size), Office-holders, Ruling political parties, Systems of government(by transition to republican system), UN member states, Voting systems, . , Demographics and
geographical rankings Area, Highest point, Birth rate, Death rate, Divorce rate, Population(density, graphical, growth rate, past and future, urban), . , Places Cemeteries, Cities, Islands, National capitals(former), National parks, Schools, Universities and colleges, World Heritage Sites, . , Other data Association football (soccer) , Battles, Cardinals, Cannabis legality , Censorship, Common surnames, Cuisines, Currencies, Discrimination and violence against minorities, Education, Electricity (mains) , Exchange rates to US dollar (historical) , GDP (nominal) , Human rights(LGBT), emergency contraception, euthanasia, Internet censorship , Languages (official) , Metro systems , Music genres, Newspapers, Novelists, People(oldest, tallest), Polygamy , Prostitution, Railway companies, School leaving age , Stem cell research trials, Tallest structures, Television networks, Tram and light rail transit systems , . , Italics indicate articles that include one or more maps., . , v , t , e , . People from Russia , Political and religious leaders Pre-1168, 1168a1917, 1922a1991, 1991apresent, RSFSR leaders, General secretaries, Soviet premiers (1st deputies), Soviet heads of state (and their spouses), Prime ministers (1st deputies), Foreign ministers, Prosecutors general, Metropolitans and Patriarchs, Saints (1, 2), . , Military figures and explorers Field marshals, Soviet marshals, Admirals, Aviators, Cosmonauts, . , Scientists, engineers and inventors Aerospace engineers, Astronomers and astrophysicists, Biologists, Chemists, Earth scientists, Electrical engineers, IT developers, Linguists and philologists, Mathematicians, Naval engineers, Physicians and psychologists, Physicists, Weaponry makers, . , Artists and writers Architects, Ballet dancers, Composers, Opera singers, Novelists, Philosophers, Playwrights, Poets, . , Sportspeople Chess players, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Outline_of_Russia and oldid=623840096" Categories: Outlines of countries, Russia, Russia-related lists, . Hidden categories: Articles with Russian-language external links, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
, . Edit links This page was last modified on 2 September 2014 at 10:21.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
