
Tourism in Russia - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Tourism in Russia 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search The marker for 9288 km, at the end of the Trans-Siberian Railway in Vladivostok 
Tourism in Russia has seen rapid growth since the late Soviet times, first inner tourism and then international tourism as well. Rich cultural heritage and great natural variety place Russia among the most popular tourist destinations in the world. The country contains 23 UNESCO World Heritage Sites, while many more are on UNESCO's tentative lists. [ 1 ] Major tourist routes in Russia include a travel around the Golden Ring of ancient cities, cruises on the big rivers like Volga, and long journeys on the famous Trans-Siberian Railway. Diverse regions and ethnic cultures of Russia offer many different food and souvenirs, and show a great variety of traditions, like Russian banya, Tatar Sabantuy, or Siberian shamanist rituals.
Unless exempt, tourists to Russia are required to purchase a visa, in addition to having a valid passport. Visas cannot be purchased at the border, and once at the border must be presented with other relevant documents.
Contents
1 Statistics , 2 Cultural tourism , 3 Resorts and nature tourism , 4 Souvenirs and food , 5 Foreign visitor arrivals in 2012 , 6 See also , 7 References , 8 External links , . 
Statistics [ edit ] 
In 2013, 27 million international tourists arrived in Russia and brought US$11.2 billion in international tourism receipts to the country. [ 2 ] Including domestic and international tourism, the industry directly contributed RUB860 billion to Russian GDP and supported 966, 500 jobs in the country. [ 3 ] 
Cultural tourism [ edit ] 
Grand Cascade in Peterhof, nicknamed Russian Versaille , a popular tourist destination in Saint Petersburg Tour guide in Moscow 
Most popular tourist destinations in Russia are Saint Petersburg (which appeared in the list of top visited cities of Europe in 2010) and Moscow, the current and the former capitals of the country and great cultural centers, recognized as World Cities. Moscow and Saint Petersburg feature such world-renown museums as Hermitage and Tretyakov Gallery, famous theaters like Bolshoi and Mariinsky, ornate churches like Saint Basil's Cathedral, Cathedral of Christ the Saviour, Saint Isaac's Cathedral and Church of the Savior on Blood, impressive fortifications like Moscow Kremlin and Peter and Paul Fortress, beautiful squares like Red Square and Palace Square, and streets like Tverskaya and Nevsky Prospect. Rich palaces and parks of extreme beauty are found in the former imperial residences in suburbs of Moscow (Kolomenskoye, Tsaritsyno) and Saint Petersburg (Peterhof, Strelna, Oranienbaum, Gatchina, Pavlovsk Palace, Tsarskoye Selo). Moscow contains a great variety of impressive Soviet era buildings along with modern skyscrapers, while Saint Petersburg, nicknamed Venice of the North , boasts of its classical architecture, many rivers, channels and bridges.
Kazan, the capital of Tatarstan, shows a unique mix of Christian Russian and Muslim Tatar cultures. The city has registered a brand The Third Capital of Russia , though a number of other major Russian cities compete for this status, like Samara, Novosibirsk, Yekaterinburg and Nizhny Novgorod, all being major cultural centers with rich history and prominent architecture. Veliky Novgorod, Pskov, Dmitrov and the cities of Golden Ring (Vladimir, Yaroslavl, Kostroma and others) have at best preserved the architecture and the spirit of ancient and medieval Rus', and also are among the main tourist destinations. Many old fortifications (typically Kremlins), monasteries and churches are scattered throughout Russia, forming its unique cultural landscape both in big cities and in remote areas.
Resorts and nature tourism [ edit ] 
The ski resort at Dombay, Western Caucasus Seaside harbour in Sochi, a subtropical Russian city and the host of the 2014 Winter Olympics and the 2014 Winter Paralympics 
The warm subtropical Black Sea coast of Russia is the site for a number of popular sea resorts, like Sochi, known for its beaches and wonderful nature. At the same time Sochi can boast a number of major ski resorts, like Krasnaya Polyana; the city is the host of 2014 Winter Olympics. The mountains of the Northern Caucasus contain many other popular ski resorts, like Dombay in KarachayaCherkessia.
The most famous natural tourist destination in Russia is Lake Baikal, named the Blue Eye of Siberia . This unique lake, oldest and deepest in the world, has crystal-clean waters and is surrounded by taiga-covered mountains.
Other popular natural destinations include Kamchatka with its volcanoes and geysers, Karelia with its many lakes and granite rocks, Altai with its snowy mountains and Tyva with its wild steppes.
v , t , e , . World Heritage Sites in Russia by federal district , Central Church of the Ascension in Kolomenskoye, Moscow Kremlin and Red Square, Novodevichy Convent, Trinity Sergius Lavra, White Monuments of Vladimir and Suzdal, Historic Centre of Yaroslavl, . , Southern Western Caucasus, . , Northwestern Curonian Spit 1 , Ferapontov Monastery, Kizhi Pogost, Virgin Komi Forests, Historic Monuments of Novgorod and Surroundings, Historic Centre of Saint Petersburg and Surroundings, Solovetsky Islands, Struve Geodetic Arc 2 , . , Far Eastern Lena Pillars, Volcanoes of Kamchatka, Central Sikhote-Alin, Wrangel Island, . , Siberian Golden Mountains of Altai, Lake Baikal, Putorana Plateau, Uvs Nuur Basin 3 , . , Volga Bolghar, Kazan Kremlin, . , North Caucasian Citadel, Ancient City and Fortress Buildings of Derbent, . , 1 Shared with Lithuania, 2 Shared with nine other countries, 3 Shared with Mongolia, . , Souvenirs and food [ edit ] 
Typical souvenirs include Matryoshka doll and other handicraft, samovars for water heating, ushanka and papaha warm hats, and fur clothes among other items. Russian vodka and caviar are among the food that attracts foreigners, along with honey, blini, pelmeni, borsch (Ukrainian in origin) and other products and dishes of Russian cuisine.
Balalaika
, Ushanka
, Matryoshka
, Garmoshka
, Vodka
, Selyodka
, Kotlety
, Caviar
, Borsch
, Cheburashka
, Vatrushka
, Okroshka
, Valenki
, Vladimir Lenin
, Samovar
, . 
Foreign visitor arrivals in 2012 [ edit ] 
Germany: 375, 285, China: 343, 357, United States: 179, 763, United Kingdom: 135, 949, Finland: 120, 306, Italy: 118, 729, Turkey: 100, 918, France: 99, 581, Israel: 85, 955, Spain: 70, 291, South Korea: 48, 425, Japan: 44, 667, Canada: 36, 260, Netherlands: 32, 533, Latvia: 32, 125, Poland: 30, 088, Switzerland: 28, 845, Austria: 28, 076, Estonia: 27, 436, India: 26, 600, Sweden: 23, 862, Lithuania: 21, 060, Norway: 20, 617, Belgium: 18, 600, Denmark: 16, 700, Greece: 14, 500, Mexico: 13, 200, . , . 
See also [ edit ] 
Visa policy of Russia, Russian culture, List of museums in Russia, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ Tentative Lists , ^ "Tourism Highlights 2013 edition". UNWTO . Retrieved 2013-11-27 . , ^ "2013 Travel and Tourism Economic Impact Report Russian Federation". WTTC . Retrieved 2013-11-27 . , External links [ edit ] 
, Wikivoyage has a travel guide for Russia ., Russia travel and tourism at DMOZ, Fully Personalized Itineraries for independent travel in Russia, Representing in North America: Russian National Tourist Office, (English) (Russian) Federal Agency for Tourism, . 
v , t , e , . Economy of Russia , History Soviet Union, Privatization, 1998 financial crisis, Monetary reforms in Russia (1991, 1993, 1998), National Priority Projects, National champions, Stabilization Fund, Great Recession in Russia, Medvedev modernisation programme, Timeline of largest projects, . , Natural resources Timber, Mining, Aluminium, Oil reserves, Energy, Nuclear power, Geothermal power, Renewable energy, . , Agriculture Fishery, Hunting, Forestry, . , Industry Engineering, (Aircraft, Automotive, Tractor, timber and agricultural machinery, Defence, Shipbuilding, Space industry, Rolling stock manufacturers), Metallurgy, (Pipe Industry), Petroleum industry, Chemical industry, Science and technology, Food industry, . , Infrastructure Telecommunications, Transport Rail, Vehicle registration plates, . , . , Services Grocery retailing, Tourism , Gambling, Real estate, . , Finance Russian ruble, Account Chamber, Banking (Banks , Central Bank of Russia) , Federal budget, Moscow Exchange, National Pension Fund, Social Insurance Fund, Tax Code, Billionaires, . , Regional economies Natural resources of Primorsky Krai, Federal subjects by GRP, Federal subjects by GDP per capita, Federal subjects by HDI, Federal subjects by unemployment rate, . , Economic regions Central, Ural, North Caucasus, Volga, West Siberian, East Siberian, Volga-Vyatka, Northwestern, Central Black Earth, Far Eastern, Northern, . , Other Companies, Trade unions, . , Category, Commons, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism , Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Tourism in Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia , Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . Tourism in Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia , San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , v , t , e , . Russian souvenirs, arts and crafts , Handicrafts Gorodets painting, Gzhel, Filimonovo toy, Kholmogory bone carving, Khokhloma, Russian lacquer art Fedoskino miniature, Kholuy miniature, Mstyora miniature, Palekh miniature, . , Russian icons, Zhostovo painting, . , Tableware Table-glass, Podstakannik, Russian porcelain Dulyovo porcelain, . , Samovar, . , Clothing Budenovka, Cherkeska, Gymnasterka, Kokoshnik, Kosovorotka, Lapti, Orenburg shawl, Papakhi, Peaked cap, Sailor cap, Sarafan, Telnyashka, Ushanka, Valenki, . , Musical
instruments Balalaika, Garmon, Bayan, Russian guitar, Musical spoons, Treshchotka, . , Toys Bird of Happiness, Cheburashka, Filimonovo toy, Dymkovo toys, Kargopol toys, Matryoshka doll, Petrushka, . , Other FabergA egg, Shashka, Tula gingerbread, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Tourism_in_Russia and oldid=627843877" Categories: Tourism in Russia, . Hidden categories: Articles with DMOZ links, Articles with Russian-language external links, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, Deutsch, aaaaaaa, PortuguAs, DNNNDDD, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 1 October 2014 at 17:22.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
