
Politics of Turkey - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of Turkey 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2008) , Turkey , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
Turkey , Constitution History, Secularism, . , Legislature Grand National Assembly Speaker: Cemil AiAek Leader of the Main Opposition Kemal KAlAAdaroAlu , . , Executive President (list) Recep Tayyip ErdoAan , Prime Minister (list) Ahmet DavutoAlu , Cabinet Current cabinet (61st) , Ministries, National Security Council, . , Judiciary Constitutional Court, Council of State, Court of Cassation, Court of Accounts, . , Elections Supreme Electoral Council, Recent elections Presidential 2000, 2007, 2014, . General 2007, 2011, 2015 , . Municipal 2004, 2009, 2014, . , Political parties, . , Foreign relations Ministry of Foreign Affairs Diplomatic missions Turkish diplomats , Membership of international
organizations , European Union Accession, Customs Union, . , . , See also Economy, History, Armed Forces, Turkey portal, . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , Politics of Turkey takes place in a framework of a strictly secular [ 1 ] parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Prime Minister of Turkey is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. The President of Turkey is the head of state who holds a largely ceremonial role but with substantial reserve powers.
Turkey's political system is based on a separation of powers. Executive power is exercised by the Council of Ministers. Legislative power is vested in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Contents
1 Political principles of importance in Turkey , 2 Political parties and elections , 3 See also , 4 References , . 
Political principles of importance in Turkey [ edit ] 
The Turkish Constitution and most mainstream political parties are built on the following principles:
Kemalism, Laicism, Modernization, . 
Other political ideas also influence Turkish politics. Of particular importance are:
Islamism, Neo-liberalism, Pan-Turkism, Socialism, Nationalism, Environmentalism, . 
These principles are the continuum around which various political parties and groups campaign.
Political parties and elections [ edit ] 
For other political parties see List of political parties in Turkey. An overview on elections and election results is included in Elections in Turkey. 
Since 1950, parliamentary politics has been dominated by conservative parties. Even the ruling AK Party, although its core cadres come from the Islamist current, tends to identify itself with the "tradition" of the Democratic Party (DP). The leftist parties, the most notable of which is the Republican People's Party (CHP), with a stable electorate, draw much of their support from big cities, coastal regions, professional middle-class, and minority groups such as Alevis.
The AK Party lacks the two-thirds majority in parliament necessary to push through constitutional changes.
See also [ edit ] 
Constitution of Turkey, Judicial system of Turkey, List of Presidents of Turkey, List of Prime Ministers of Turkey, List of Speakers of the Parliament of Turkey, List of political parties in Turkey, List of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Turkey, National Security Council (Turkey), State feminism (section: Turkey), Coalition governments in Turkey, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ AarkoAlu, Ali (2004). Religion and Politics in Turkey . Routledge, UK. ISBN0-415-34831-5. , v , t , e , . Turkeytopics , History 
Pre-Turkish era Prehistory of Anatolia and Thrace, Classical Anatolia and Thrace, Assyria, Byzantine Anatolia, . , Seljuq era Sultanate of Rum, Mongol conquest of Anatolia, Ilkhanate, . , Ottoman era Foundation, Interregnum, Rise, Growth, Stagnation, Decline, Dissolution, Partitioning, . , Republican era War of Independence, Single-party period, Multi-party period, . , By topic Ancient Anatolians, Constitutional, Economic, Military, Thracians, Timeline of Turkish history, Turkic migration, . , Geography 
Capes, Cities, Districts, Environmental issues, Gulfs and bays, Islands, Lakes, Metropolitan municipalities, Mountains, Peninsulas, Provinces, Regions, Rivers, . , Places Anatolia, Thrace (Eastern) , Turkish Riviera, Aukurova, . , Politics 
Cabinet, Elections, Foreign relations, Human rights LGBT, . , Military, Parliament, President, Prime Minister, . , Legal system Constitution, Constitutional Court, Law enforcement, Official gazette, . , Deep state, EU accession, Kemalism, Neo-Ottomanism, Ottomanism, Political parties, Secularism, . , Society 
Crime, Education, Languages Turkish, . , . , Culture Architecture, Ottoman, Art, Cinema, Cuisine wine, . , Dance, Drama (TV) , Festivals, Folklore, Literature, Media newspapers, radio stations, TV, . , Music, Names, Public holidays, Religion Islam, . , Smoking, Sport, Theatre, . , Demographics Turkish people list, AtatArk, Ottoman Sultans, . , Population diaspora, immigration, Muhacir , . , Minorities Armenians, Assyrians, Kurds, . , . , Symbols Anthem, Emblems, Flag, Motto, Presidential seal, . , Outline, Index, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Politics of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey , Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , v , t , e , . Politics of Europe , Sovereign states Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey , Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , States with limited
recognition Abkhazia, Kosovo, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, South Ossetia, Transnistria, . , Dependencies and
other territories Aland, Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Svalbard, . , Other entities European Union, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_Turkey and oldid=626343421" Categories: Politics of Turkey, . Hidden categories: Use dmy dates from July 2012, Articles needing additional references from July 2008, All articles needing additional references, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
AzErbaycanca, DNDDDNNDD, AeAtina, Deutsch, EspaAol, FranAais, Italiano, LatvieAu, Magyar, DDDDDDDNDD, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, PortuguAs, DNDNDD / srpski, TArkAe, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 20 September 2014 at 13:56.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
