
Politics of the United Arab Emirates - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Politics of the United Arab Emirates 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
United Arab Emirates , This article is part of a series on the
politics and government of
the United Arab Emirates , Constitution (1971) , President Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan , Federal Supreme Council Current members , Prime Minister M. bin Rashid Al Maktoum , Federal National Council Speaker: Mohammad Al Murr , Recent elections Parliamentary: 2006, 2011, . , Foreign relations, Human rights, . , See also Emirates, Rulers, . , Armed Forces, History, . , . , Other countries , Atlas , . 
Politics portal 
, v , t , e , . , Life in the UAE Cuisine
Culture
Communications
Cinema
Demography
Education
Geography
Human rights
Military
Media
Politics 
Music
Transport
Religion
Sport
Tourism, edit box , Politics of the United Arab Emirates takes place in a framework of a federal, presidential, absolute monarchy. The United Arab Emirates (UAE) is a federation of seven constituent monarchies: the Emirates of Abu Dhabi, Ajman, Dubai, Fujairah, Ras al-Khaimah, Sharjah, and Umm al-Qaiwain. According to convention, the ruler of Abu Dhabi is President of the United Arab Emirates, the head of state, and the ruler of Dubai is the Prime Minister of the United Arab Emirates, the head of government.
Contents
1 Law , 2 Executive branch , 3 Federal Supreme Council 3.1 Federal Supreme Council members/UAE rulers , . , 4 Council of Ministers/Cabinet , 5 Local politics , 6 Legislature , 7 Federal Judiciary , 8 Political reform , 9 International organization affiliations , 10 References , 11 External links , . 
Law [ edit ] 
The UAE's judicial system is derived from the civil law system and Sharia law. The court system consists of civil courts and Sharia courts. According to Human Rights Watch, UAE's civil and criminal courts apply elements of Sharia law, codified into its criminal code and family law, in a way which discriminates against women. [ 1 ] 
Judicial corporal punishment is a legal form of punishment in UAE due to the Sharia courts. Flogging is used in UAE as a punishment for criminal offences such as adultery, premarital sex and prostitution. [ 2 ] In most emirates, floggings of Muslims are frequent with sentences ranging from 80 to 200 lashes. [ 3 ] [ 4 ] Between 2007 and 2013, many people were sentenced to 100 lashes. [ 5 ] [ 6 ] [ 7 ] [ 8 ] [ 9 ] [ 10 ] [ 2 ] [ 11 ] Moreover in 2010 and 2012, several Muslims were sentenced to 80 lashes for alcohol consumption. [ 12 ] [ 13 ] Under UAE law, premarital sex is punishable by 100 lashes. [ 14 ] 
Stoning is a legal form of judicial punishment in UAE. In 2006, an expatriate was sentenced to death by stoning for committing adultery. [ 15 ] Between 2009 and 2013, several people were sentenced to death by stoning. [ 8 ] [ 16 ] [ 17 ] In May 2014, an Asian housemaid was sentenced to death by stoning in Abu Dhabi. [ 18 ] [ 19 ] [ 20 ] 
Sharia law dictates the personal status law, which regulate matters such as marriage, divorce and child custody. The Sharia-based personal status law is applied to Muslims and sometimes non-Muslims. [ 21 ] Non-Muslim expatriates are liable to Sharia rulings on marriage, divorce and child custody. [ 21 ] Sharia courts have exclusive jurisdiction to hear family disputes, including matters involving divorce, inheritances, child custody, child abuse and guardianship of minors. Sharia courts may also hear appeals of certain criminal cases including rape, robbery, driving under the influence of alcohol and related crimes. [ 22 ] 
Apostasy is a crime punishable by death in the UAE. UAE incorporates hudud crimes of Sharia into its Penal Code - apostasy being one of them. [ 23 ] Article 1 and Article 66 of UAE's Penal Code requires hudud crimes to be punished with the death penalty, [ 23 ] [ 24 ] therefore apostasy is punishable by death in the UAE.
Emirati women must receive permission from male guardian to remarry. [ 25 ] The requirement is derived from Sharia, and has been federal law since 2005. [ 25 ] In all emirates, it is illegal for Muslim women to marry non-Muslims. [ 26 ] In the UAE, a marriage union between a Muslim woman and non-Muslim man is punishable by law, since it is considered a form of "fornication". [ 26 ] 
Homosexuality is illegal: the death penalty is one of the punishments for homosexuality. Article 80 of the Abu Dhabi Penal Code makes sodomy punishable with imprisonment of up to 14 years, while article 177 of the Penal Code of Dubai imposes imprisonment of up to 10 years on consensual sodomy. [ 27 ] 
Kissing in public is strictly illegal and can result in deportation, kissing in public is a crime punishable by deportation. [ 28 ] Expats in Dubai have been deported for kissing in public. [ 29 ] [ 30 ] [ 31 ] 
Article 1 of the Federal Penal Code states that "provisions of the Islamic Law shall apply to the crimes of doctrinal punishment, punitive punishment and blood money." [ 32 ] The Federal Penal Code repealed only those provisions within the penal codes of individual emirates which are contradictory to the Federal Penal Code. Hence, both are enforceable simultaneously. [ 33 ] 
Executive branch [ edit ] 
Main office holders Office Name Party Since President, Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, November 3, 2004, Prime Minister, Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, January 5, 2006, Administratively, the UAE is a federation of seven emirates, each with its own ruler. The pace of local government reform in each emirate is set primarily by the ruler. Under the provisional constitution of 1971, each emirate reserves considerable powers, including control over mineral rights (notably oil) and revenues. In this milieu, federal powers have developed slowly as each Emirate already had its own existing institutions of government prior to the countryas official foundation. The constitution of the United Arab Emirates separates powers into executive, legislative, and judicial branches. Additionally, legislative and executive powers are divided into federal and emirate jurisdictions. [ 34 ] 
The constitution of the United Arab Emirates established the positions of president (chief of state) and vice president and elected by the rulers of each of the emirates from within (the seven rulers comprise the Federal Supreme Council, which also has an elected chairman and a vice chairman each serving five-year terms); a Council of Ministers (cabinet), led by a prime minister (head of government); a supreme council of rulers; and a 40-member National Assembly (known as the Federal National Council), a consultative body whose members are partially appointed by the emirate rulers and partially elected; and an independent judiciary which includes the Federal Supreme Court. Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan was president of the UAE from its foundation until his death on November 2, 2004. His eldest son, Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, is the current president.
Under federal authority, responsibilities include foreign affairs, security and defence, nationality and immigration issues, education, public health, currency, postal, telephone and other communications services, air traffic control, licensing of aircraft, labour relations, banking, delimitation of territorial waters and extradition of criminals. Issues excluded from Articles 120 and 121 of the Constitution are to be under the jurisdiction of respective Emirates and are reaffirmed by Article 116 which states that: athe Emirates shall exercise all powers not assigned to the federation by this Constitutiona. This is further reiterated by Article 122, which stated that athe Emirates shall have jurisdiction in all matters not assigned to the exclusive jurisdiction of the federation, in accordance with the provision of the preceding two Articlesa. [ 35 ] 
Federal Supreme Council [ edit ] 
The Federal Supreme Council consists of the individual rulers of the seven emirates. The President and Vice-President are elected by the Supreme Council every five years. Although unofficial, the Presidency is de facto hereditary to the Al Nahyan clan of Abu Dhabi and the Premiership is hereditary to the Al-Maktoum clan of Dubai. Article 47 of the UAE constitution defines the powers of the Councilas authority in formulation of general policy; legislation on all matters of state; ratification of federal laws and decrees, including those relating to budget and fiscal matters; ratification of international treaties and agreements; and appointment of the prime minister and Supreme Court judges. [ 36 ] Decisions are made by majority vote unless relating to substantive issues which require a two-thirds majority vote (five out of seven rulers), which must include Abu Dhabi and Dubai. [ 37 ] The Supreme Council also elects the Council of Ministers, while an appointed 40-member Federal National Council, drawn from all the emirates, reviews proposed laws.
Federal Supreme Council members/UAE rulers [ edit ] 
HH President Shaikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Ruler of Abu Dhabi, HH Vice President and Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Ruler of Dubai, HH Dr. Sheikh Sultan bin Mohamed Al Qasimi, Ruler of Sharjah, HH Sheikh Saud bin Saqr Al Qasimi, Ruler of Raas al Khaimah, HH Sheikh Hamad bin Mohammed Al Sharqi, Ruler of Fujairah, HH Sheikh Saud bin Rashid Al Mu'alla, Ruler of Umm al Qaiwain, HH Sheikh Humaid bin Rashid Al Nuaimi, Ruler of Ajman, . 
Council of Ministers/Cabinet [ edit ] 
Main article: Cabinet of the United Arab Emirates 
The Cabinet of United Arab Emirates (also called the Council of Ministers, Arabic: UOUO OUUOOOO a) is a collegial body presided over by the Prime Minister. It consists of 22 members and is also headed by a Prime Minister (chosen by the President with consultation). The federal cabinet is the executive authority for the federation. Under the supreme control of the President and supreme council, it manages all internal and foreign affairs of the federation under its constitutional and federal laws. The cabinet consists of cabinet's President(Prime Minister of UAE) and two deputies and ministers. The general secretariat shall be handled by the secretary general of the cabinet [ 38 ] 
Local politics [ edit ] 
The relative political and financial influence of each emirate is reflected in the allocation of positions in the federal government. The ruler of Abu Dhabi, whose emirate is the UAE's major oil producer, is president of the UAE. The ruler of Dubai, which is the UAE's commercial center and a former oil producer, is vice president and prime minister.
Since achieving independence in 1971, the UAE has worked to strengthen its federal institutions. Nonetheless, each emirate still retains substantial autonomy, and progress toward greater federal integration has slowed in recent years. A basic concept in the UAE Government's development as a federal system is that a significant percentage of each emirate's revenues should be devoted to the UAE central budget. [ 39 ] 
Although complexity of local government differs depending on size and development of each emirate, most such as Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah and Ajman have their own Executive Councils chaired by respective rulers and possessing various departments reflective of federal ministries. Various autonomous agencies also exist such as an Environment Agency, Tourism Authority, Authority for Culture and Heritage, and Health Authority. Some emirates such as Abu Dhabi may also be divided into two municipalities (the Western and Eastern Regions) and its main cities of Abu Dhabi and Al Ain are also administered by own municipalities with a municipal council. Abu Dhabi and Sharjah have own National Consultative Councils with similar local duties and role as the Federal National Council. [ 40 ] 
It has long been regional tradition for rulers to hold open discussions with their people, be they common, merchants or the elite. Often, this forum is held by the emirate rulers as well as senior family members. This open majlis, or consultation, is held periodically; however, a ruler may also appoint an emir, or wali, to whom concerns may be directed by the general population when necessary. This individual is often considered a leading tribal figure whose trust is placed by his tribe as well as the ruler.
Legislature [ edit ] 
The Federal National Council ( al-Majlis al-Watani al-Ittihadi ) is the UAEas legislative body and consists of 40 members. Half are appointed by the rulers of their respective emirates, and hold all of the council's political power. The other half, who have only advisory tasks and serve two-year terms, are elected by a 6, 689-member electoral college whose members are appointed by the emirates. Members are required to be citizens of the emirate they represent, a minimum twenty-five years of age, and literate. [ 41 ] Members of the Federal National Council are drawn from each emirate based on population and presided over by a speaker who is elected from among the Councilas members. The council carries out the countryas main consultative duties and has both a legislative and supervisory role provided by the Constitution. It has the authority to examine and amend any proposed federal legislation but it cannot veto any proposed bills. It can also question any ministers on ministry performance.
Political parties are officially outlawed, but some do exist, such as Hizb ut-Tahrir.
The FNC is the main consultative body in the UAE and has both a legislative and supervisory role accorded by the Constitution.
Since the Councilas inception, the following have been selected to chair:
Thani bin Abdulla, Taryam bin Omran Taryam, Hilal bin Ahmed bin Lootah, Al Haj bin Abdullah Al Muhairbi, Mohammed Khalifa Al Habtoor (appointed 1997), Saeed Mohammed Al Kindi (appointed 2003), Abdul Aziz Al Ghurair (appointed 2006), Mohammed Ahmed Al Murr Al Falasi (appointed 2011), . 
After the succession of HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid as ruler of Dubai and election as PM/Vice President of the UAE, the Emirates took their first steps towards indirect elections for the countryas parliament on National Day, December 2, 2005 upon the official announcement by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. The new reforms provided for each ruler to select an Electoral College for his respective emirate based on population and comprised the following: Abu Dhabi and Dubai a 8; Sharjah and Raas al Khaimah a 6; Fujairah, Ajman, and Umm al Qaiwain: 4. These colleges were designated the responsibility to elect one half of the Federal National Councilas members for their own emirate. The other half would be appointed by the Emirateas ruler. A National Electoral Committee was created and the UAEas first election occurred during mid-December 2006. [ 42 ] 
ead Summary of the 16, 18 and 20 December 2006 UAE Federal National Council election results Members Seats Elected, 20, Appointed by the rulers of the constituent emirates, 20, Total 40, Female membership Among the twenty members chosen by the Electoral College, one woman was elected. Eight women were appointed by the rulers of the seven emirates and, with the exception of Umm al-Qaiwain, at least one woman was appointed by each emirate. Women therefore constituted 22.5f the Council's membership, a significant increase. Three among those appointed were from Dubai. [ 43 ] , The objective is for FNC members to be wholly elected. However, in a country with a long monarchical tradition, reform is considered effective when gradual. Further consideration is being given to formulating a local electoral process.
v , t , e , . Elections in the United Arab Emirates , Parliamentary elections 2006, 2011, . , Federal Judiciary [ edit ] 
Main article: United Arab Emirates Legal Process 
The Federal Judiciary is a constitutionally completely independent body (under Article 94) and includes the Federal Supreme Court and Courts of First Instance. Supreme Council of Rulers appoints the five judges headed by a president to the Supreme Court. The judges are responsible for deciding if federal laws are constitutional, mediating between inter-emirate disputes. [ 44 ] It also possesses the authority to try cases involving cabinet and senior federal officials. Although secular law is applied, the basis of legislation is Sharia (Islamic Law) and involves three of the four schools including (mainly) Maliki, but also the Hanbali and Shafi'i schools. [ 45 ] 
Political reform [ edit ] 
In early 2007, the United Arab Emirates launched the 'UAE Government Strategy' for the years ahead, which covered twenty-one topics in six different sectors including social development, economic development, public sector development, justice and safety, infrastructure and rural areas development. The initiative is meant to reevaluate and advance these sectors towards top global standards by facilitating better continuous cooperation between federal and local governments with increased efficiency, training, Emiratisaion, ministry empowerment, upgrading of services, improving civil service and legislation review.
Subsequently, Abu Dhabi announced implementation of its own policy to modernize public administration practices and government performance in 2007a2008. Plans for reevaluation were laid out in areas including economy, energy, tourism, health, education, labour, civil services, culture and heritage, good control, urban planning, transport, environment, health and safety, municipal affairs, police and emergency services, electronic government, women and legislative reform. Abu Dhabi hopes advancements towards exceptional global standards in these areas will improve the quality of services for its residents as well as attract future investment towards further modernizing the Emirate. [ 46 ] 
International organization affiliations [ edit ] 
ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, CAEU, ESCWA, FAO, G-77, GCC, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OAPEC, OIC, OPCW, OPEC, United Nations, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCO, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO
References [ edit ] 
^ "Human Rights Watch warns expat women about the UAE". , ^ a b "Torture and flogging". Fanack. , ^ "UAE: Judicial corporal punishment by flogging". World Corporal Punishment Research. , ^ "United Arab Emirates". Crime and Society. , ^ "Pregnant maid to get 100 lashes after being found guilty of illegal affair". , ^ "Teenager to be lashed for adultery". , ^ "Illicit lovers sentenced to 100 lashes each". , ^ a b "Two women sentenced to death for adultery". , ^ "Prison for couple who conceived outside of wedlock". "KA, 19, Emirati, was sentenced to six months in prison. Her would-be husband, AM, Omani, was sentenced to 100 lashes and one year in prison." , ^ "Adulterer to be lashed, jailed in Sharjah". , ^ "DUBAI: Alleged victim of gang rape sentenced to one year in prison". "At that point, she was facing a penalty for extramarital sex, which is 100 lashes and a minimum of three years in prison." , ^ "Man to get 80 lashes for drinking alcohol". 2010. , ^ "Man appeals 80 lashes for drinking alcohol in Abu Dhabi". 2012. , ^ "Woman denies affair after hearing she faces stoning". "Under the same law, premarital sex is punishable by 100 lashes." , ^ "UAE: Death by stoning/ flogging". Amnesty. , ^ "Man faces stoning in UAE for incest". , ^ "Woman denies affair after hearing she faces stoning". , ^ "Woman Sentenced to Death by Stoning in UAE". , ^ "Asian housemaid gets death for adultery in Abu Dhabi". , ^ "Expat faces death by stoning after admitting in court to cheating on husband". , ^ a b "Britons 'liable to Sharia divorces' in UAE". BBC. , ^ "The UAE Court System". Consulate General of the United States Dubai, UAE. , ^ a b Butti Sultan Butti Ali Al-Muhairi (1996), The Islamisation of Laws in the UAE: The Case of the Penal Code, Arab Law Quarterly, Vol. 11, No. 4 (1996), pp. 350-371 , ^ Al-Muhairi (1997), Conclusion to the Series of Articles on the UAE Penal Law. Arab Law Quarterly, Vol. 12, No. 4 , ^ a b "Divorcees, widows concerned about receiving apermissiona before remarrying". , ^ a b United Arab Emirates International Religious Freedom Report, Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor (2009) , ^ "Federal criminal statute In UAE". Sodomylaws.Org. Archived from the original on 14 June 2006. , ^ "Public kissing can lead to deportation". , ^ "Women get jail and deportation for kissing on Dubai public beach". gulfnews. 25 May 2008. , ^ "Jailed Dubai kissing pair lose appeal over conviction". , ^ "London man tells of 'shock' jailing in Dubai over kiss". , ^ "Federal Law No (3) of 1987 on Issuance of the Penal Code". United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. , ^ "Measures Against Corruptibility, Gifts and Gratification a Bribery in the Middle East". Arab Law Quarterly. , ^ Library of Congress http://lcweb2.loc.gov/frd/cs/aetoc.html , ^ UAE Constitution text: Helplinelaw.com Accessed February 24, 2009 http://www.helplinelaw.com/law/uae/constitution/constitution05.php , ^ http://www.helplinelaw.com/law/uae/constitution/constitution04.php , ^ Library of Congress http://lcweb2.loc.gov/frd/cs/aetoc.html , ^ http://www.uaecabinet.ae/English/The Cabinet/Pages/default.aspx , ^ National Media Council, aUnited Arab Emirates Yearbook 2008, a Trident Press Ltd. London, (Government section) , ^ National Media Council, aUnited Arab Emirates Yearbook 2008, a Trident Press Ltd. London, (Government section) , ^ Library of Congress http://lcweb2.loc.gov/frd/cs/aetoc.html , ^ First UAE election , ^ http://www.almajles.gov.ae/ , ^ National Media Council, aUnited Arab Emirates Yearbook 2008, a Trident Press Ltd. London, (Government section) , ^ Library of Congress, Accessed February 24, 2008: http://lcweb2.loc.gov/frd/cs/aetoc.html , ^ National Media Council, aUnited Arab Emirates Yearbook 2008, a Trident Press Ltd. London, (Government section) , External links [ edit ] 
Dubai Government Information and Services Portal, United Arab Emirates Government at DMOZ, UAE at Adam Carr's Election Archive, UAEPrison.com Human Rights problems about UAE, Politics and Government at EmiratesVoyage.com, . 
v , t , e , . United Arab Emiratestopics , History Origins, Portuguese control, British and Ottoman rule, 1892 Treaty, Border disputes, Trucial States Council, Formation and independence, Zayed, oil and union, Death of Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, . , Geography 
Border disputes, Cities, Climate, Environmental concerns, Resources and land use, Towns and villages, . , Politics 
Elections 2006 parliamentary, . , Emirates rulers, . , Federal National Council, Federal Supreme Council, Foreign aid, Foreign relations, Human rights LGBT, . , Law, Military, President, Prime Minister, . , Economy 
Central Bank, Dirham (currency) , Taxation, Tourism attractions, hotels, resorts, Dubai, . , Stock exchange, Telecommunications companies, regulation, Internet domain, . , Transport airlines, airports, water-based, . , . , Society 
Crime, Demographics, Education, Emirati people list, . , Expatriates, Health, Language, Women, . , Culture Architecture, Cinema, Cuisine, Literature and poetry writers, . , Media Dubai radio and TV channels, . , Music, Religion Sunni Muslim, Shi'a Muslim, . , Sport camel racing, . , Thawb (garment) , . , Symbols Animal, Anthem, Bird, Coat of arms, Flag, Flower, Garment, Sport, Tree, . , Outline, Index, . Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Politics of Asia , Sovereign states Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, China, Cyprus, East Timor (Timor-Leste), Egypt, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates , Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , States with
limited recognition Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Northern Cyprus, Palestine, South Ossetia, Taiwan, . , Dependencies and
other territories British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Politics_of_the_United_Arab_Emirates and oldid=631028011" Categories: Politics of the United Arab Emirates, . Hidden categories: Use mdy dates from June 2013, Articles containing Arabic-language text, Articles with DMOZ links, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
aaaaa, DNDDDNNDD, EspaAol, FranAais, aaaaaaa, PortuguAs, . Edit links This page was last modified on 25 October 2014 at 06:19.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
