
Russia and the United Nations - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Russia and the United Nations 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . 
, This article needs attention from an expert on the subject . Please add a reason or a talk parameter to this template to explain the issue with the article. Consider associating this request with a WikiProject. (April 2010) , This article possibly contains original research . Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (April 2010) , This article is written like a personal reflection or opinion essay that states the Wikipedia editor's particular feelings about a topic, rather than the opinions of experts . Please help improve it by rewriting it in an encyclopedic style. (December 2007) , Russian Federation , United Nations membership Membership Full member, Since 1945 ( 1945 ) (as USSR) 
1992 (as Russia), Former name(s) Soviet Union, UNSC seat Permanent, Ambassador Vitaly Churkin, Russia succeeded the Soviet Union's seat, including its permanent membership on the Security Council in the United Nations after the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991. The succession was supported by the USSR's former members and was not objected to by the UN membership; Russia accounted for about half the Soviet Union's economy and most of its land mass; in addition, the history of the Soviet Union began in Russia. If there was to be a successor to the Soviet seat on the Security Council among the former Soviet republics, these factors made Russia seem like a logical choice. Nonetheless, due to the rather inflexible wording of the United Nations Charter and its lack of provision for succession, the succession's technical legality has been questioned by some international lawyers.
Contents
1 History , 2 Legality , 3 Effect on the United Nations , 4 See also , 5 References , 6 External links , . 
History [ edit ] 
Chapter V, Article 23 of the UN Charter, adopted in 1945, provides that "The Security Council should consist of fifteen Members of the United Nations. The Republic of China, The French Republic, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the United States of America shall be permanent members of the Security Council." [ 1 ] 
The USSR collapsed in the early 1990s. Eleven of the twelve members of the Commonwealth of Independent States signed a declaration on December 21, 1991 agreeing that "Member states of the Commonwealth support Russia in taking over the USSR membership in the UN, including permanent membership in the Security Council." One day before the resignation of President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, Ambassador Y. Vorontsov transmitted to the UN Secretary-General a letter from President of the Russian Federation Boris Yeltsin stating that:
the membership of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in the United Nations, including the Security Council and all other organs and organizations of the United Nations system, is being continued by the Russian Federation (RSFSR) with the support of the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States. In this connection, I request that the name 'Russian Federation' should be used in the United Nations in place of the name 'the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics'. The Russian Federation maintains full responsibility for all the rights and obligations of the USSR under the Charter of the United Nations, including the financial obligations. I request that you consider this letter as confirmation of the credentials to represent the Russian Federation in United Nations organs for all the persons currently holding the credentials of representatives of the USSR to the United Nations. [ 2 ] 
The Secretary-General circulated the request among the UN membership. There being no objection, the Russian Federation took the USSR's place, with Boris Yeltsin personally taking the Russian Federation's seat at the January 31, 1992 Security Council meeting.
Legality [ edit ] 
The legality of the succession has been questioned by international lawyer Yehuda Z. Blum, who opined that "with the demise of the Soviet Union itself, its membership in the UN should have automatically lapsed and Russia should have been admitted to membership in the same way as the other newly-independent republics (except for Belarus and Ukraine)." The elimination of Soviet (and subsequently Russian) membership on the UN Security Council would have created a constitutional crisis for the UN, which may be why the UN Secretary-General and members did not object. This situation could have been avoided had all the other nations but Russia seceded from the USSR, allowing the USSR to continue existing as a legal entity. [ 3 ] 
A mere change of name by itself, from the USSR to the Russian Federation, would not have barred Russia from succeeding the USSR. Zaire changed its name to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and retained its UN seat. A change in the USSR's system of government likewise would not have prevented the succession; Egypt and many other countries have made a transition from monarchy to republic without jeopardizing their positions in international organizations. However, Blum argues that a key difference between these situations is that the Soviet Union was terminated as a legal entity. The 11 former members nations that supported the transfer of the seat to Russia also declared that "with the formation of the Commonwealth of Independent States the Union of the Soviet Socialist Republics ceases to exist." The poorly defined rules on state succession make the legal situation murky.
Professor Rein Mullerson concluded that the succession was legitimate, identifying three reasons: "Firstly, after the dissolution, Russia is [sic] still remains one of the largest States in the world geographically and demographically. Secondly, Soviet Russia after 1917 and especially the Soviet Union after 1922 were treated as continuing the same State as existed under the Russian Empire. These are objective factors to show that Russia is the continuation of the Soviet Union. The third reason which forms the subjective factor is the Stateas behaviour and the recognition of the continuity by the third States." [ 4 ] 
The Vienna Convention on Succession of States in respect of Treaties was not a factor in the succession because that Convention did not enter into force until 1996.
Effect on the United Nations [ edit ] 
The transition led to increased debate on the relevance of the 1945 system of a Security Council dominated by five permanent members to the present world situation. Russians abroad notes that Russia is "only half the size of the former Soviet economy"; the transition thus marked a significant change in the entity exercising this permanent seat. [ 5 ] Mohamed Sid-Ahmed noted that "one of the five powers enjoying veto prerogatives in the Security Council has undergone a fundamental identity change. When the Soviet Union became Russia, its status changed from that of a superpower at the head of the communist camp to that of a society aspiring to become part of the capitalist world. Russia's permanent membership in the Security Council is no longer taken for granted. The global ideological struggle that had for so long dominated the international scene is no more, and the new realities have to be translated into a different set of global institutions." [ 6 ] 
The years following the breakup of the Soviet Union have seen a dramatic increase in the number of proposals for Security Council reform. In 2005, Kofi Annan's report In Larger Freedom proposed finalizing arrangement to add more permanent seats as soon as possible. Campaigns to abolish the veto have also gained support, although their adoption is unlikely in the near future, since it would require the consent of the Permanent Five.
Global Policy Forum has several statements from the Permanent Five on file giving arguments for why the current system should be maintained. Russia, for instance, states the veto is necessary for "balanced and sustainable decisions". [ 7 ] 
See also [ edit ] 
, Russia portal, Soviet Union portal, United Nations portal, International relations portal, Succession of states, Soviet Union and the United Nations, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ [1] [ dead link ] , ^ Letter to the Secretary-General of the United Nations from the President of the Russian Federation , ^ [2] [ dead link ] , ^ [3] [ dead link ] , ^ "Russian economy, the Russian economy, Russia economy, Russian economy 2002, Russian economy today, current Russian economy on". Russiansabroad.com . Retrieved 2012-07-12 . , ^ "P-5 Veto Outdated". Globalpolicy.org . Retrieved 2012-07-12 . , ^ "Russia Vetoes the Abolition of the Veto". Globalpolicy.org. 1999-03-24 . Retrieved 2012-07-12 . , Official site of the Permanent Mission of the Russian Federation to the UN., Blum, Yehuda Z.: Russia Takes Over the Soviet Union's Seat at the United Nations, European Journal of International Law., Mullerson, Rein: The Continuity and Succession of States, by Reference to the Former USSR and Yugoslavia, (1993) 42 AJIL, p 476, Russia Vetoes the Abolition of the Veto, Statement by a Representative of the Russian Federation in the Open-Ended Working Group on Security Council Reform on Veto Issue, Mar. 24, 1999., Chapter 6. The Economy, Russianabroad., Sid-Ahmed, Mohamed: P-5 Veto Outdated, Cairo Al-Ahram, July 8a14, 1999., United Nations Charter., Vienna Convention on Succession of States in respect of Treaties., . 
External links [ edit ] 
Official site of the Permanent Mission of the Russian Federation to the UN., (English) (Russian) Permanent Mission of the Russian Federation to the United Nations, . 
v , t , e , . Foreign relations of Russia , Bilateral relations , Africa Algeria, Angola, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Congo, Democratic Republic of the, Congo, Republic of the, Egypt, Ethiopia, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Lesotho, Libya, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Senegal, Seychelles, South Africa, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Tunisia, Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe, . , Asia Abkhazia, Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burma, Cambodia, China, East Timor, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mongolia, Nepal, North Korea, Oman, Pakistan, Palestine, Philippines, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea, South Ossetia, Sri Lanka, Syria, Taiwan, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, . , Europe Albania, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, Vatican City, . , North America Bahamas, Canada, Costa Rica, Cuba, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Trinidad and Tobago, United States, . , Oceania Australia, Fiji, Nauru, New Zealand, Tonga, Vanuatu, . , South America Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Guyana, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela, . , Multilateral relations , Arab League, BRICS, European Union, NATO, . , Diplomacy , Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Diplomatic missions of / in Russia, Russia and the United Nations , . , v , t , e , . United Nations' relations with its Member States , Asia China, India, Indonesia, Israel and Palestine, Japan, Korea, Lebanon, Malaysia, Pakistan, Philippines, Singapore, . , Europe France, Germany, Luxembourg, Russia , United Kingdom, . , North America Canada, Mexico, Trinidad and Tobago, United States, . , Oceania Australia, Fiji, Marshall Islands, Micronesia, New Zealand, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, . , South America Brazil, . , Others Holy See, European Union, . , Former members Republic of China, German Democratic Republic, Soviet Union, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Russia_and_the_United_Nations and oldid=618042149" Categories: Russia and the United Nations, United Nations relations, . Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links, Articles with dead external links from July 2012, Articles needing expert attention with no reason or talk parameter, Articles needing unspecified expert attention, Articles needing expert attention from April 2010, All articles needing expert attention, Articles that may contain original research from April 2010, All articles that may contain original research, Wikipedia articles needing style editing from December 2007, All articles needing style editing, Articles with Russian-language external links, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
, . Edit links This page was last modified on 22 July 2014 at 22:23.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
