
Ural Mountains - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Ural Mountains 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search This article is about the land formation. For other uses, see Ural (disambiguation). 
The Ural Mountains , Highest point Peak Mount Narodnaya, Elevation 1, 895m (6, 217ft), Dimensions Length 2, 500km (1, 600mi), Width 150km (93mi), Geography Countries Russia and Kazakhstan, Geology Period Carboniferous, The Ural Mountains (Russian: DNDIDNNDDD DDINN , tr. Uralskiye gory ; IPA: [EEralEskEEjE EgorE] ; Bashkir: DNDD NDNODNN ), or simply the Urals , are a mountain range that runs approximately from north to south through western Russia, from the coast of the Arctic Ocean to the Ural River and northwestern Kazakhstan. [ 1 ] Their eastern side is usually considered the natural boundary between Europe and Asia. Vaygach Island and the islands of Novaya Zemlya form a further continuation of the chain to the north into the Arctic.
The mountains lie within the Ural geographical region and significantly overlap with the Ural Federal District and Ural economic region. They are rich in various deposits, including metal ores, coal, precious and semi-precious stones. Since the 18th century the mountains have been a major mineral base of Russia.
Contents
1 Etymology , 2 History , 3 Geography and topography , 4 Geology , 5 Rivers and lakes , 6 Climate , 7 Flora , 8 Fauna , 9 Ecology , 10 Cultural significance , 11 See also , 12 References , 13 External links , . 
Etymology [ edit ] 
As attested by Sigismund von Herberstein, in the 16th century Russians called the range by a variety of names derived from the Russian words for rock (stone) and belt. The modern Russian name for the Urals (DNDD, Ural ), first appearing in the 16tha17th century when the Russian conquest of Siberia was in its heroic phase, was initially applied to its southern parts and gained currency as the name of the entire range during the 18th century. It might have been a borrowing from either Turkic (Bashkir, where the same name is used for the range), or Ob-Ugric. [ 2 ] From the 13th century, in Bashkortostan there has been a legend about a hero named Ural. He sacrificed his life for the sake of his people and they poured a stone pile over his grave, which later turned into the Ural Mountains. [ 3 ] [ 4 ] [ 5 ] 
History [ edit ] 
As Middle-Eastern merchants traded with the Bashkirs and other people living on the western slopes of the Urals as far North as Great Perm, since at least the 10th century medieval mideastern geographers had been aware of the existence of the mountain range in its entirety, stretching as far as to the Arctic Ocean in the north. The first Russian mention of the mountains to the east of the East European Plain is provided by the Primary Chronicle, when it describes the Novgorodian expedition to the upper reaches of the Pechora in 1096. During the next few centuries Novgorodians engaged in fur trading with the local population and collected tribute from Yugra and Great Perm, slowly expanding southwards. The rivers Chusovaya and Belaya were first mentioned in the chronicles of 1396 and 1468, respectively. In 1430 the town of Solikamsk (Kama Salt) was founded on the Kama at the foothills of the Urals, where salt was produced in open pans. Ivan III of Moscow captured Perm, Pechora and Yugra from the declining Novgorod Republic in 1472. With the excursions of 1483 and 1499a1500 across the Urals Moscow managed to subjugate Yugra completely.
a fragment of von Herberstein's map 
Nevertheless, around that time early 16th century Polish geographer Maciej of MiechAw in his influential Tractatus de duabus Sarmatiis (1517) argued that there were no mountains in Eastern Europe at all, challenging the point of view of some authors of Classical antiquity, popular during the Renaissance. Only after Sigismund von Herberstein in his Notes on Muscovite Affairs (1549) had reported, following Russian sources, that there are mountains behind the Pechora and identified them with the Ripheans and Hyperboreans of ancient authors, did the existence of the Urals, or at least of its northern part, become firmly established in the Western geography. The Middle and Southern Urals were still largely unavailable and unknown to the Russian or Western European geographers.
Verkhoturye in 1910 
In the 1550s, after the Tsardom of Russia had defeated the Khanate of Kazan and proceeded to gradually annex the lands of the Bashkirs, the Russians finally reached the southern part of the mountain chain. In 1574 they founded Ufa. The upper reaches of the Kama and Chusovaya in the Middle Urals, still unexplored, as well as parts of Transuralia still held by the hostile Siberian Khanate, were granted to the Stroganovs by several decrees of the tsar in 1558a1574. The Stroganovs' land provided the staging ground for Yermak's incursion into Siberia. Yermak crossed the Urals from the Chusovaya to the Tagil around 1581. In 1597 Babinov's road was built across the Urals from Solikamsk to the valley of the Tura, where the town of Verkhoturye (Upper Tura) was founded in 1598. Customs was established in Verkhoturye shortly thereafter and the road was made the only legal connection between European Russia and Siberia for a long time. In 1648 the town of Kungur was founded at the western foothills of the Middle Urals. During the 17th century the first deposits of iron and copper ores, mica, gemstones and other minerals were discovered in the Urals.
Iron and copper smelting works emerged. They multiplied particularly quickly during the reign of Peter I of Russia. In 1720a1722 he commissioned Vasily Tatishchev to oversee and develop the mining and smelting works in the Urals. Tatishchev proposed a new copper smelting factory in Yegoshikha, which would eventually become the core of the city of Perm and a new iron smelting factory on the Iset, which would become the largest in the world at the time of construction and give birth to the city of Yekaterinburg. Both factories were actually founded by Tatishchev's successor, Georg Wilhelm de Gennin, in 1723. Tatishchev returned to the Urals on the order of Empress Anna to succeed de Gennin in 1734a1737. Transportation of the output of the smelting works to the markets of European Russia necessitated the construction of the Siberian Route from Yekaterinburg across the Urals to Kungur and Yegoshikha (Perm) and further to Moscow, which was completed in 1763 and rendered Babinov's road obsolete. In 1745 gold was discovered in the Urals at Beryozovskoye and later at other deposits. It has been mined since 1747.
The first railway across the Urals had been built by 1878 and linked Perm to Yekaterinburg via Chusovoy, Kushva and Nizhny Tagil. In 1890 a railway linked Ufa and Chelyabinsk via Zlatoust. In 1896 this section became a part of the Trans-Siberian Railway. In 1909 yet another railway connecting Perm and Yekaterinburg passed through Kungur by the way of the Siberian Route. It has eventually replaced the Ufa a Chelyabinsk section as the main trunk of the Trans-Siberian railway.
The highest peak of the Urals, Mount Narodnaya, (elevation 1, 895 m (6, 217 ft)) was identified in 1927.
During the Soviet industrialization in the 1930s the city of Magnitogorsk was founded in the southeastern Urals as a center of iron smelting and steelmaking. During the German invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941a1942, the mountains became a key element in Nazi planning for the territories which they expected to conquer in the USSR. Faced with the threat of having a significant part of the Soviet territories occupied by the enemy, the government evacuated many of the industrial enterprises of European Russia and Ukraine to the eastern foothills of the Urals, considered a safe place out of reach of the German bombers and troops. Three giant tank factories were established at the Uralmash in Sverdlovsk (as Yekaterinburg used to be known), Uralvagonzavod in Nizhny Tagil, and Chelyabinsk Tractor Plant in Chelyabinsk. After the war, in 1947a1948, Chum a Labytnangi railway, built with the forced labor of Gulag inmates, crossed the Polar Urals.
The first ample geographic survey of the Ural Mountains was completed in the early 18th century by the Russian historian and geographer Vasily Tatishchev under the orders of Peter I. Earlier, in the 17th century, rich ore deposits were discovered in the mountains and their systematic extraction began in the early 18th century, eventually turning the region into the largest mineral base of Russia. [ 1 ] [ 3 ] 
One of the first scientific descriptions of the mountains was published in 1770a71. Over the next century, the region was studied by scientists from a number of countries, including Russia (geologist Alexander Karpinsky, botanist Porfiry Krylov and zoologist Leonid Sabaneyev), England (geologist Sir Roderick Murchison), France (paleontologist Edouard de Verneuil), and Germany (naturalist Alexander von Humboldt, geologist Alexander Keyserling). [ 1 ] [ 6 ] In 1845, Murchison, who had according to EncyclopAdia Britannica "compiled the first geologic map of the Urals in 1841", [ 1 ] published The Geology of Russia in Europe and the Ural Mountains with de Verneuil and Keyserling. [ 6 ] [ 7 ] 
Mayak, 150km southeast of Yekaterinburg, was a center of the Soviet nuclear industry [ 1 ] [ 8 ] [ 9 ] [ 10 ] and site of the Kyshtym disaster. [ 9 ] [ 11 ] 
Geography and topography [ edit ] 
The Ural Mountains extend about 2, 500km (1, 600mi) from the Kara Sea to the Kazakh Steppe along the northern border of Kazakhstan. Vaygach Island and the island of Novaya Zemlya form a further continuation of the chain on the north. Geographically this range marks the northern part of the border between the continents of Europe and Asia. Its highest peak is Mount Narodnaya, approximately 1, 895m (6, 217ft) in elevation. [ 1 ] 
By topography and other natural features, the Urals are divided, from north to south, into the Polar (or Arctic), Nether-Polar (or Sub-Arctic), Northern, Central and Southern parts. The Polar Urals extend for about 385 kilometers (239mi) from Mount Konstantinov Kamen in the north to the Khulga River in the south; they have an area of about 25, 000km 2 (9, 700sqmi) and a strongly dissected relief. The maximum height is 1, 499m (4, 918ft) at Payer Mountain and the average height is 1, 000 to 1, 100m (3, 300 to 3, 600ft). The mountains of the Polar Urals have exposed rock with sharp ridges, though flattened or rounded tops are also found. [ 1 ] [ 3 ] 
The Nether-Polar Urals are up to 150km (93mi) wider and higher than the Polar Urals. They include the highest peaks of the range: Mount Narodnaya (1, 895m (6, 217ft)), Mount Karpinsky (1, 878m (6, 161ft)) and Manaraga (1, 662m (5, 453ft)). They extend for more than 225km (140mi) south to the Shchugor River. The many ridges are sawtooth shaped and dissected by river valleys. Both Polar and Nether-Polar Urals are typically Alpine; they bear traces of Pleistocene glaciation, along with permafrost and extensive modern glaciation, including 143 extant glaciers. [ 1 ] [ 3 ] 
The Northern Urals consist of a series of parallel ridges up to 1, 000a1, 200m (3, 300a3, 900ft) in height and longitudinal depressions. They are elongated from north to south and stretch for about 560km (350mi) from the Usa River. Most of the tops are flattened, but those of the highest mountains, such as Telposiz, 1, 617m (5, 305ft) and Konzhakovsky Stone, 1, 569m (5, 148ft) have a dissected topography. Intensive weathering has produced vast areas of eroded stone on the mountain slopes and summits of the northern areas. [ 1 ] [ 3 ] 
The Central Urals are the lowest part of the Urals, with smooth mountain tops, the highest mountain being 994m (3, 261ft) (Basegi); they extend south from the Ufa River. [ 3 ] 
The relief of the Southern Urals is more complex, with numerous valleys and parallel ridges directed south-west and meridionally. The maximum height is 1, 640m (5, 380ft) (Mount Yamantau) and the width reaches 250km (160mi). Other notable peaks lie along the Iremel mountain ridge (Bolshoy Iremel and Maly Iremel). The Southern Urals extend some 550km (340mi) up to the sharp westward bend of the Ural River and terminate in the wide Mughalzhar Hills. [ 1 ] 
, Mountain formation near Saranpaul, Nether-Polar Urals, Rocks in a river, Nether-Polar Urals, Mountain Big Iremel, Entry to Ignateva Cave, South Urals, Geology [ edit ] 
A mine in the Ural Mountains, 1910. 
The Urals are among the world's oldest extant mountain ranges. For its age of 250 to 300 million years, the elevation of the mountains is unusually high. They were formed during the Uralian orogeny due to the collision of the eastern edge of the supercontinent Laurussia with the young and rheologically weak continent of Kazakhstania, which now underlies much of Kazakhstan and West Siberia west of the Irtysh, and intervening island arcs. The collision lasted nearly 90 million years in the late Carboniferous a early Triassic. [ 12 ] [ 13 ] [ 14 ] [ 15 ] Unlike the other major orogens of the Paleozoic (Appalachians, Caledonides, Variscides), the Urals have not undergone post-orogenic extensional collapse and are unusually well preserved for their age, being underlaid by a pronounced crustal root. [ 16 ] [ 17 ] East and south of the Urals much of the orogen is buried beneath later Mesozoic and Cenozoic sediments. [ 12 ] The adjacent Pay-Khoy to the north is not a part of the Uralian orogen and formed later.
Many deformed and metamorphosed rocks, mostly of Paleozoic period, surface within the Urals. The sedimentary and volcanic layers are folded and broken, and form meridional bands. The sediments to the west of the Ural Mountains are formed by limestone, dolomite and sandstone left from ancient shallow seas. The eastern side is dominated by basalts similar to the rocks of the bottom of the modern oceans. [ 3 ] 
The western slope of the Ural Mountains has predominantly karst topography, especially in the basin of the Sylva River, which is a tributary of the Chusovaya River. It is composed of severely eroded sedimentary rocks (sandstones and limestones) that are about 350 million years old. There are many caves, karst sinks and underground streams. The karst topography is much less developed on the eastern slopes. They are relatively flat, with some hills and rocky outcrops and contain alternating volcanic and sedimentary layers dated to the middle Paleozoic period. [ 3 ] Most high mountains consist of weather-resistant rocks such as quartzite, schist and gabbro that are between 570 and 395 million years old. The river valleys are laid with limestone. [ 1 ] 
The Ural Mountains contain about 48 species of economically valuable ores and minerals. Eastern regions are rich in chalcopyrite, nickel oxide, gold, platinum, chromite and magnetite ores, as well as in coal (Chelyabinsk Oblast), bauxite, talc, fireclay and abrasives. The Western Urals contain deposits of coal, oil, natural gas (Ishimbay and Krasnokamsk areas) and potassium salts. Both slopes are rich in bituminous coal and lignite, and the largest deposit of bituminous coal is in the north (Pechora field). The specialty of the Urals is precious and semi-precious stones, such as emerald, amethyst, aquamarine, jasper, rhodonite, malachite and diamond. Some of the deposits, such as the magnetite ores at Magnitogorsk, are already nearly depleted. [ 1 ] [ 3 ] 
Minerals from the Ural Mountains , Andradite, Beryl, Platinum, Quartz, Rivers and lakes [ edit ] 
Chusovaya River 
Many rivers originate in the Ural Mountains. The western slopes south of the border between the Komi Republic and Perm Krai and the eastern slopes south of approximately 54A30'N drain into the Caspian Sea via the Kama and Ural River basins. The tributaries of the Kama include the Vishera, Chusovaya, and Belaya and originate on both the eastern and western slopes. The rest of the Urals drain into the Arctic Ocean, mainly via the Pechora basin in the west, which includes the Ilych, Shchugor, and the Usa, and via the Ob basin in the east, which includes the Tobol, Tavda, Iset, Tura and Severnaya Sosva. The rivers are frozen for more than half the year. Generally, the western rivers have higher flow volume than the eastern ones, especially in the Northern and Nether-Polar regions. Rivers are slower in the Southern Urals. This is because of low precipitation and the relatively warm climate resulting in less snow and more evaporation. [ 1 ] [ 3 ] 
The mountains contain a number of deep lakes. [ 18 ] The eastern slopes of the Southern and Central Urals have most of these, among the largest of which are the Uvildy, Itkul, Turgoyak, and Tavatuy lakes. [ 3 ] The lakes found on the western slopes are less numerous and also smaller. Lake Bolshoye Shchuchye, the deepest lake in the Polar Urals, is 136 meters (446ft) deep. Other lakes, too, are found in the glacial valleys of this region. Spas and sanatoriums have been built to take advantage of the medicinal muds found in some of the mountain lakes. [ 1 ] [ 3 ] 
Climate [ edit ] 
The climate of the Urals is continental. The mountain ridges, elongated from north to south, effectively absorb sunlight thereby increasing the temperature. The areas west of the Ural Mountains are 1a2AC (1.8a3.6AF) warmer in winter than the eastern regions because the former are warmed by Atlantic winds whereas the eastern slopes are chilled by Siberian air masses. The average January temperatures increase in the western areas from a20AC (a4AF) in the Polar to a15AC (5AF) in the Southern Urals and the corresponding temperatures in July are 10AC (50AF) and 20AC (68AF). The western areas also receive more rainfall than the eastern ones by 150a300mm (5.9a11.8in) per year. This is because the mountains trap clouds from the Atlantic Ocean. The highest precipitation, approximately 1, 000mm (39in), is in the Northern Urals with up to 1, 000cm (390in) snow. The eastern areas receive from 500a600mm (20a24in) in the north to 300a400mm (12a16in) in the south. Maximum precipitation occurs in the summer: the winter is dry because of the Siberian High. [ 1 ] [ 3 ] 
Flora [ edit ] 
Cloudberry 
The landscapes of the Urals vary with both latitude and longitude and are dominated by forests and steppes. The southern area of the Mughalzhar Hills is a semidesert. Steppes lie mostly in the southern and especially south-eastern Urals. Meadow steppes have developed on the lower parts of mountain slopes and are covered with zigzag and mountain clovers, Serratula gmelinii , dropwort, meadow-grass and Bromus inermis , reaching the height of 60a80cm. Much of the land is cultivated. To the south, the meadow steppes become more sparse, dry and low. The steep gravelly slopes of the mountains and hills of the eastern slopes of the Southern Urals are mostly covered with rocky steppes. River valleys contain willow, poplar and caragana shrubs. [ 3 ] 
Forest landscapes of the Urals are diverse, especially in the southern part. The western areas are dominated by dark coniferous taiga forests which change to mixed and deciduous forests in the south. The eastern mountain slopes have light coniferous taiga forests. The Northern Urals are dominated by conifers, namely Siberian fir, Siberian pine, Scots pine, Siberian spruce, Norway spruce and Siberian larch, as well as by Silver and downy birches. The forests are much sparser in the Polar Urals. Whereas in other parts of the Ural Mountains they grow up to the heights of 1km, in the Polar Urals the tree line is at 250a400 m. The polar forests are low and are mixed with swamps, lichens, bogs and shrubs. Dwarf birch, mosses and berries (blueberry, cloudberry, black crowberry, etc.) are abundant. The forests of the Southern Urals are the most diverse in composition: here, together with coniferous forests are also abundant broadleaf tree species such as English oak, Norway maple and elm. [ 3 ] The Virgin Komi Forests in the northern Urals are recognized as a World Heritage site.
Fauna [ edit ] 
The Ural forests are inhabited by animals typical of Siberia, such as elk, brown bear, fox, wolf, wolverine, lynx, squirrel and sable (north only). Because of the easy accessibility of the mountains there are no specifically mountainous species. In the Middle Urals, one can see a rare mixture of sable and pine marten named kidus. In the Southern Urals, badger and black polecat are common. Reptiles and amphibians live mostly in the Southern and Central Ural and are represented by the common viper, lizards and grass snakes. Bird species are represented by capercaillie, black grouse, hazel grouse, spotted nutcracker and cuckoos. In summers, the South and Middle Urals are visited by songbirds, such as nightingale and redstart. [ 1 ] [ 3 ] 
The steppes of the Southern Urals are dominated by hares and rodents such as gophers, susliks and jerboa. There are many birds of prey such as lesser kestrel and buzzards. The animals of the Polar Urals are few and are characteristic of the tundra; they include Arctic fox, tundra partridge, lemming and reindeer. The birds of these areas include rough-legged buzzard, snowy owl and rock ptarmigan. [ 1 ] [ 3 ] 
, Wolverine, Polecat, Ecology [ edit ] 
The continuous and intensive economic development of the last centuries has affected the fauna, and wildlife is much diminished around all industrial centers. During World War II, hundreds of factories were evacuated from Western Russia before the German occupation, flooding the Urals with industry. The conservation measures include establishing national wildlife parks. [ 1 ] There are nine strict nature reserves in the Urals: the Ilmen, the oldest one, mineralogical reserve founded in 1920 in Chelyabinsk Oblast, Pechora-Ilych in the Komi Republic, Bashkir and its former branch Shulgan-Tash in Bashkortostan, Visim in Sverdlovsk Oblast, South Urals in Bashkortostan, Basegi in Perm Krai, Vishera in Perm Krai and Denezhkin Kamen in Sverdlovsk Oblast.
The area has also been severely damaged by the plutonium-producing facility Mayak opened in Chelyabinsk-40 (later called Chelyabinsk-65, Ozyorsk), in the Southern Urals, after World War II. [ 1 ] Its plants went into operation in 1948 and, for the first ten years, dumped unfiltered radioactive waste into the Techa River and Lake Karachay. [ 1 ] [ 8 ] [ 9 ] In 1990, efforts were underway to contain the radiation in one of the lakes, which was estimated at the time to expose visitors to 500 millirem per day. [ 9 ] As of 2006, 500 mrem in the natural environment was the upper limit of exposure considered safe for a member of the general public in an entire year (though workplace exposure over a year could exceed that by a factor of 10). [ 10 ] Over 23, 000km 2 (8, 900sqmi) of land were contaminated in 1957 from a storage tank explosion, only one of several serious accidents that further polluted the region. [ 1 ] The 1957 accident expelled 20 million curies of radioactive material, 90f which settled into the land immediately around the facility. [ 11 ] Although some reactors of Mayak were shut down in 1987 and 1990, [ 9 ] the facility keeps producing plutonium. [ 19 ] 
Cultural significance [ edit ] 
The Urals have been viewed by Russians as a "treasure box" of mineral resources, which were the basis for its extensive industrial development. In addition to iron and copper the Urals were a source of gold, malachite, alexandrite, and other gems such as those used by the court jeweller FabergA. As Russians in other regions gather mushrooms or berries, Uralians gather mineral specimens and gems. Dmitry Mamin-Sibiryak (1852a1912) Pavel Bazhov (1879a1950), as well as Aleksey Ivanov and Olga Slavnikova, post-Soviet writers, have written of the region. [ 20 ] 
The region served as a "military stronghold" during Peter the Great's Great Northern War with Sweden, during Stalin's rule when the Magnitogorsk Metallurgical Complex was built and Russian industry relocated to the Urals during the Nazi advance at the beginning of World War II, and as the center of the Soviet nuclear industry during the Cold War. Extreme levels of air, water, and radiological contamination and pollution by industrial wastes resulted. Population exodus resulted, and economic depression at the time of the collapse of the Soviet Union, but in post-Soviet times additional mineral exploration, particularly in the northern Urals, has been productive and the region has attracted industrial investment. [ 20 ] 
See also [ edit ] 
Dyatlov Pass incident, Idel-Ural State, Pangaea, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u Ural Mountains, EncyclopAdia Britannica on-line , ^ DDNDDN, DDDN. DNDDDDDDDNDNDDD NDDDDNN NNNNDDDD NDNDD , ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q "Ural (geographical)". Great Soviet Encyclopedia. , ^ * Koriakova, Ludmila and Epimakhov, Andrei (2007). The Urals and Western Siberia in the Bronze and Iron Ages . Cambridge University Press. p.338. ISBN0-521-82928-3. , ^ Ural, toponym Chlyabinsk Encyclopedia (in Russian) , ^ a b Geological Society of London (1894). The Quarterly journal of the Geological Society of London . The Society. p.53. , ^ cf. Murchison, Roderick Impey; de Verneuil, Edouard; Keyserling, Alexander (1845). The Geology of Russia in Europe and the Ural Mountains . John Murray. , ^ a b Podvig, Pavel; Bukharin, Oleg; von Hippel, Frank (2004). Russian Strategic Nuclear Forces . MIT Press. p.70. ISBN978-0-262-66181-2. , ^ a b c d e Paine, Christopher (22 July 1989). "Military reactors go on show to American visitors". New Scientist . Retrieved 8 July 2010 . , ^ a b American Chemical Society (2006). Chemistry in the Community: ChemCom . Macmillan. p.499. ISBN978-0-7167-8919-2. , ^ a b Educational Foundation for Nuclear Science, Inc. (May 1991). Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists . Educational Foundation for Nuclear Science, Inc. p.25. ISSN0096-3402 . Retrieved 8 July 2010 . , ^ a b Brown, D. and Echtler, H. (2005) "The Urals". In: R. C. Selley, L. R. M. Cocks and I. R. Plimer (eds.), Encyclopedia of Geology , Vol. 2. Elsevier, pp. 86a95. , ^ Cocks, L. R. M. and Torsvik, T. H. (2006) "European geography in a global context from the Vendian to the end of the Palaeozoic". In Gee, D. G. and Stephenson, R. A. (eds), European Lithosphere Dynamics. Geological Society, London, Memoirs , 32, 83a95. , ^ Puchkov, V. N. (2009). "The evolution of the Uralian orogen". Geological Society, London, Special Publications 327 : 161. doi:10.1144/SP327.9. edit , ^ Brown, D.; Juhlin, C.; Ayala, C.; Tryggvason, A.; Bea, F.; Alvarez-Marron, J.; Carbonell, R.; Seward, D.; Glasmacher, U.; Puchkov, V.; Perez-Estaun, A. (2008). "Mountain building processes during continentacontinent collision in the Uralides". Earth-Science Reviews 89 (3a4): 177. doi:10.1016/j.earscirev.2008.05.001. edit , ^ Leech, M. L. (2001). "Arrested orogenic development: Eclogitization, delamination, and tectonic collapse". Earth and Planetary Science Letters 185 : 149. doi:10.1016/S0012-821X(00)00374-5. edit , ^ Scarrow, J. H.; Ayala, C.; Kimbell, G. S. (2002). "Insights into orogenesis: Getting to the root of a continent-ocean-continent collision, Southern Urals, Russia". Journal of the Geological Society 159 (6): 659. doi:10.1144/0016-764901-147. edit , ^ Davis, W.M. (1898). "The Ural Mountains". In American Association for the Advancement of Science. Science . Moses King. p.563 . Retrieved 8 July 2010 . , ^ DNDDDDDDNNDD DDNNDDDN N DD "DDND" DD DDDDNNDDD NDDDDDDDDDN DDNDDDNDDD DD DNDDN [Plutonium production will not be transferred from Mayak], obzor.westsib.ru, 25 March 2010 (in Russian) , ^ a b Givental, E. (2013). "Three Hundred Years of Glory and Gloom: The Urals Region of Russia in Art and Reality". SAGE Open 3 (2). doi:10.1177/2158244013486657. edit , External links [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Ural Mountains ., Wikivoyage has a travel guide for Urals ., Peakbagger.com page on the Ural Mountains, Ural Expeditions and Tours page on the five parts of the Ural Mountains, . 
Coordinates: 60A00aN 60A00aE i / i 60.000AN 60.000AE i / 60.000; 60.000 
v , t , e , . Geography topics , History, Index/Outline, Portal, . , Branches 
Human Behavioral, Cultural, Demography, Development, Economic, Feminist, Health, Historical, Political, Regional, Urban, . , Physical Biogeography, Climatology, Coastal, Geodesy, Geomorphology, Glaciology, Hydrology, Landscape ecology, Limnology, Oceanography, Palaeogeography, Pedology, Quaternary science, . , Integrative Environmental geography, . , Techniques and tools Cartography, Geographic Information Systems (GIS), Geostatistics, Global Positioning System (GPS), Remote sensing, Spatial analysis, Spatial science, Qualitative research, . , Societies American Geographical Society, Association of American Geographers, European Geography Association, Geographical Association, Hong Kong Geographical Association, International Geographical Union, Lisbon Geographic Society, National Geographic Society, Royal Canadian Geographical Society, Royal Geographical Society, Royal Scottish Geographical Society, Russian Geographical Society, Saudi Geographical Society, SociAtA de GAographie, Society of Woman Geographers, . , Geographers Ptolemy, Al-Masudi, Gerardus Mercator, Carl Ritter, Alexander Von Humboldt, Alfred Russel Wallace, Richard Chorley, . , Geography Departments University of Cambridge, University of Edinburgh, University of Leeds, Moscow State University, Stockholm University, University of Sydney, Texas A and M College, . , v , t , e , . Subfields of physical geography , Biogeography, Climatology / Paleoclimatology, Coastal geography, Edaphology, Geomorphology, Glaciology, Hydrology / Hydrography, Landscape ecology, Limnology, Meteorology, Oceanography, Palaeogeography, Pedology/Soil science, Quaternary science, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains , West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ural_Mountains and oldid=630595421" Categories: Mountain ranges of Russia, Novaya Zemlya, Physiographic divisions, Mountain ranges of Kazakhstan, Geology of Russia, . Hidden categories: Use dmy dates from September 2012, Articles containing Russian-language text, Articles containing Bashkir-language text, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, Coordinates on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
Afrikaans, Alemannisch, Anglisc, OUOOOUO, AvaAe'a, AzErbaycanca, aaaaa, DDNODNNND, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, DNDDDNNDD, Boarisch, Bosanski, Brezhoneg, CatalA, DODDNDD, AeAtina, Cymraeg, Dansk, Deutsch, Dolnoserbski, Eesti, IIIIIIII, EspaAol, Esperanto, EstremeAu, Euskara, UOOOU, FranAais, Frysk, Gaeilge, Gaelg, Galego, iei, aaaaaa, Hornjoserbsce, Hrvatski, Bahasa Indonesia, Interlingue, Aslenska, Italiano, aaaaaaa, ODDDOND, Kiswahili, KurdA, Latina, LatvieAu, LietuviA, Magyar, DDDDDDDNDD, aaaaaa, aaaaa, aaaaaaaaa, Bahasa Melayu, MirandAs, DDDDDD, aaaaaaaaaa, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, Occitan, OEzbekcha, aaaaaa, UUOOOU, DDNDD DDDD, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, Sicilianu, Simple English, SlovenAina, SlovenAAina, DNDNDD / srpski, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Suomi, Svenska, Tagalog, aaaaa, DDNDNND/tatarAa, aaa, DDODDO, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, OOOU, OUUOUOUU / Uyghurche, VAneto, Tiang Viat, ce, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 22 October 2014 at 01:31.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
