
Viktor Zubkov - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Viktor Zubkov 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search This article is about the Russian politician. For the Soviet basketball player, see Viktor Zubkov (basketball). 
Viktor Zubkov
DDIDNDN DNDDDID , Prime Minister of Russia In office 
7 May 2012a 8 May 2012
Acting , President Vladimir Putin, Deputy Igor Shuvalov, Preceded by Vladimir Putin, Succeeded by Dmitry Medvedev, In office 
14 September 2007a 8 May 2008, Preceded by Mikhail Fradkov, Succeeded by Vladimir Putin, First Deputy Prime Minister of Russia In office 
7 May 2008a 21 May 2012
Serving with Igor Shuvalov, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin
Dmitry Medvedev, Preceded by Dmitry Medvedev
Sergei Ivanov, Succeeded by Igor Shuvalov, Personal details Born Viktor Alekseyevich Zubkov 
( 1941-09-15 ) 15 September 1941 (age73) 
Arbat, Kushva, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Soviet Union
(present-day Russia) , Political party Independent, Spouse(s) Zoe Zubkov, Children Julia Serdyukova, Religion Russian Orthodox, Signature , Viktor Alekseyevich Zubkov (Russian: DDIDNDN DDDDNDIDDDN DNDDDID ; IPA: [EvEiktEr ElEEEksEejEvEEtIE zEpEkof] ; born 15 September 1941) is a Russian politician and businessman who served as the Prime Minister of Russia from September 2007 to May 2008. He was Vladimir Putin's First Deputy Prime Minister during the Presidency of Dmitry Medvedev.
Zubkov was a financial crime investigator until 12 September 2007, when he was nominated by President Vladimir Putin to replace Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov, who had resigned earlier that day. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] The nomination was approved in the Duma on 14 September 2007. [ 3 ] On 7 May 2008 Zubkov's cabinet was automatically dismissed. This procedure, following an inauguration of the President of Russia is required by the Russian Constitution. After Putin became Prime Minister, Zubkov was appointed First Deputy Prime Minister.
Zubkov is also the current chairman of the board of directors of Gazprom, Russia's largest corporation and one of the largest oil and natural gas companies in the world.
Contents
1 Life and career 1.1 Tenure as Prime Minister , . , 2 Honours and awards , 3 References , 4 External links , . 
Life and career [ edit ] 
Born in Sverdlovsk Oblast, Zubkov graduated from the Economic Department of the Leningrad Agriculture Institute in 1972.
In 1966 he was drafted to the Soviet Army for an 18-month term. From 1967 to 1985 he worked on leading positions in kolkhozes of Leningrad Oblast. In 1985 to 1991 he occupied several leading positions in the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in Leningrad Oblast, in 1989 to 1991 a First Deputy Chairman of the Leningrad Oblast Executive Committee of the Party.
In January 1992 to November 1993 he was a deputy Chairman of the External Relations Committee of the Saint Petersburg Mayor Office led by Vladimir Putin.
From 3 November 1993, to 30 November 1998, Zubkov was the Chief of the Saint Petersburg Department of the State Tax Inspection and simultaneously a Deputy Chairman of the State Tax Inspection for Saint Petersburg.
In December 1998, during the term of Yevgeny Primakov's Cabinet the State Tax Inspection was reorganized into the Tax Ministry of Russia and Zubkov's deputy head position was abolished, but he was immediately reappointed Chief of the Saint Petersburg Directorate of the Tax Ministry. On 23 July 1999 Zubkov was appointed Deputy Tax Minister of Russia for the Northwestern region. In a few days he was also appointed Chief of the Saint Petersburg and Leningrad Oblast Directorate of the Tax Ministry.
On 12 August 1999 he was registered as a contender in the Leningrad Oblast governor election, assisted by Boris Gryzlov as his election campaign manager, but lost the election to Valeriy Serdyukov on 19 September 1999, with 8.64 percent of the vote (4th place out of 16).
On 5 November 2001 he left his positions in the Tax Ministry and was appointed First Deputy Finance Minister of Russia and Chairman of the Financial Monitoring Committee of the ministry, aimed to fight money laundering.
On 16 March 2004 after the dismissal of Mikhail Kasyanov's Cabinet, the Financial Monitoring Committee was renamed to Federal Financial Monitoring Service of the Finance Ministry, but Zubkov retained his position in Mikhail Fradkov's First Cabinet and Mikhail Fradkov's Second Cabinet.
In a 2006 survey of political experts, Zubkov was ranked as Russia's 84th most influential politician. [ 4 ] 
Zubkov's daughter is married to Anatoliy Serdyukov, the former Russian Defense Minister. [ 5 ] 
Tenure as Prime Minister [ edit ] 
Some Kremlinologists viewed Zubkov as one more technical Prime Minister, interpreting the move as a way to renew a competition between possible successors. [ 6 ] Another theory suggested that Putin chose a man of unquestioning loyalty to help him control powerful factions jostling for position inside the Kremlin. Another clue to his usefulness lies in Zubkov's experience under Putin as the man leading the fight against financial crime. Putin said that there were five people who can run for president and can be elected, including Zubkov. [ 7 ] On 13 September Zubkov himself said he might run for President of Russia in 2008. [ 8 ] However, in December 2007 Putin officially gave his support to Dmitry Medvedev for the 2008 presidential election, effectively dashing Zubkov's hopes for the presidency. After Medvedev took office, Zubkov succeeded him as chairman of Gazprom.
Honours and awards [ edit ] 
This article incorporates information from the equivalent article on the Russian Wikipedia . Order of Merit for the Fatherland; 2nd class (19 September 2008) - for his great personal contribution to the economic policy of the state and many years of fruitful activity, 3rd class (9 May 2006) - for outstanding contribution to protecting the economic interests of the Russian Federation and many years of diligent work, 4th class (11 April 2000) - for services to the state and a major contribution to the implementation of economic reforms, . , Ceremonial dagger, Order of the Red Banner of Labour (1981), Order of the Badge of Honour (1975), Medal "Veteran of Labour" (1986), Honored Economist of the Russian Federation (16 September 2001) - for services in the field of economics and finance, Diploma of the Government of the Russian Federation (1998), Honorary Citizen of the Leningrad Region (2009), Order of Holy Prince Daniel of Moscow, 1st class (Russian Orthodox Church, 2011), . 
References [ edit ] 
^ "Putin names next prime minister", BBC News, 12 September 2007. , ^ "Putin Dissolves Government, Nominates Viktor Zubkov as New Prime Minister", FOX News, 12 September 2007. , ^ Duma approves Zubkov for prime ministeras post, ITAR-TASS. , ^ C. J. Chivers, "Putin Shuffles Government, Posing Mystery", The New York Times , 13 September 2007. , ^ Putin appoints Prime Minister Viktor Zubkov, lenta.ru (Russian) , ^ Putin sets cat among succession pigeons, globeandmail.com , ^ RIA Novosti - Russia - Putin says five candidates could run for president -1 , ^ Russia's new PM says could stand for president, sweissinfo.org , External links [ edit ] 
, Wikimedia Commons has media related to Viktor Zubkov ., (Russian) Biography by Vladimir Pribylovsky, Profile at Gazprom, Profile: Viktor Zubkow at BBC News , 12 September 2007, Viktor Zubkov collected news and commentary at The New York Times , Works by or about Viktor Zubkov in libraries (WorldCat catalog), . 
Political offices Precededby
Mikhail Fradkov , Prime Minister of Russia 
2007a2008, Succeededby
Vladimir Putin , Persondata Name, Zubkov, Viktor, Alternative names, Short description, Russian politician and businessman, Date of birth, 15 September 1941, Place of birth, Arbat, Kushva, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Soviet Union (present-day Russia), Date of death, Place of death, Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Viktor_Zubkov and oldid=624627721" Categories: 1941 births, Living people, People from Sverdlovsk Oblast, Acting Prime Ministers of the Russian Federation, Heads of government of the Russian Federation, Recipients of the Order of Holy Prince Daniel of Moscow, Recipients of the Order of Merit for the Fatherland, 2nd class, Recipients of the Order of Merit for the Fatherland, 3rd class, Recipients of the Order of Merit for the Fatherland, 4th class, Recipients of the Order of the Badge of Honour, Recipients of the Order of the Red Banner of Labour, . Hidden categories: Articles with Russian-language external links, Articles containing Russian-language text, Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
DDDDNNNDDN, DNDDDNNDD, Bosanski, CatalA, AeAtina, Cymraeg, Deutsch, Eesti, IIIIIIII, EspaAol, Esperanto, UOOOU, FranAais, Galego, iei, Hrvatski, Ido, Bahasa Indonesia, Italiano, aaaaaaa, LietuviA, Magyar, DDDDDDDNDD, Bahasa Melayu, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, Occitan, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, Simple English, DNDNDD / srpski, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Suomi, Svenska, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, Tiang Viat, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 8 September 2014 at 04:48.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
