
Vladimir-Suzdal - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Vladimir-Suzdal 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
Grand Duchy of Vladimir*, DDDDDDDND-DNIDDDDNNDDD DDNIDDNNDD
Vladimiro-Suzdal'skoye knyazhestvo , Vassal state of the Golden Horde (from 1238), a 
, 1157a1331 , a 
, Seal of Alexander Nevsky
, Principality of Vladimir-Suzdal (Rostov-Suzdal) within Kievan Rus' in the 11th century , Capital , Languages , Old East Slavic, Religion , Russian Orthodox Christianity, Government , Principality, Grand Duke of Vladimir , -, 1157-1175 (first), Andrey Bogolyubsky, -, 1328a1331 (last), Alexander of Suzdal, History , -, Established, 1157, -, Disestablished, 1331, *Since 1169 after sacking Kiev, the Duchy of Vladimir-Suzdal became the Grand Duchy of Vladimir-Suzdal. , Part of a series on the History of Russia , Early Slavs/ Rus', pre-9th century , Volga Bulgaria, 7tha13th century , Khazar Khaganate, 7tha10th century , Rus' Khaganate, 9th century , Kievan Rus', 9tha12th century , Vladimir-Suzdal , 12tha14th century , Novgorod Republic, 12tha15th century , Tatar Yoke, 13tha15th century , Grand Duchy, 1283a1547, Tsardom of Russia, 1547a1721, Russian Empire, 1721a1917, Russian Republic, 1917, Russian SFSR/ Soviet Union, 1917a1991, Russian Federation, 1992a present , Timeline , Russia portal, v , t , e , . , The veneration of the Theotokos as a holy protectress of Vladimir was introduced by Prince Andrew, who dedicated to Her many churches and installed in his palace a revered image, known as Theotokos of Vladimir. 
The Grand Duchy of Vladimir [ 1 ] (1157a1331) (Russian: DDDDDDDND-DNIDDDDNNDDD DDNIDDNNDD , Vladimiro-Suzdal'skoye knyazhestvo ) or just Vladimir-Suzdal (Russian: DDDDDDDNNDD-DNIDDDDNNDDN , Vladimirsko-Suzdal'skaya ) was one of the major principalities that succeeded Kievan Rus' in the late 12th century, centered in Vladimir-on-Klyazma. With time the principality grew into a grand duchy divided into several smaller principalities. After being conquered by the Mongol Empire, the principality became a self-governed state headed by its own nobility. A governorship of principality, however, was prescribed by a Khan declaration (jarlig) issued from the Golden Horde to a noble family of any of smaller principalities.
Traditionally, Vladimir-Suzdal is perceived as a cradle of the Great Russian language and nationality and gradually evolved into the Grand Duchy of Moscow.
Contents
1 Origin 1.1 Rostov principality , 1.2 Rostov-Suzdal , . , 2 Rise of Vladimir , 3 Mongol yoke , 4 Further reading , 5 See also , 6 References , 7 External links , . 
Origin [ edit ] 
Rostov principality [ edit ] 
The first notable administrators in the Rostov region presumably were the sons of Vladimir the Great, Boris and Gleb, and later Yaroslav the Wise. The principality occupied a vast territory in the northeast of Kievan Rus', approximately bounded by the Volga, Oka, and Northern Dvina rivers. Until the decline of Kievan Rus' in the 12th-13th centuries the territory was also commonly called as Zalesie, meaning beyond woodland. There is a scarce historical information for the area during that time. The foundation of the Rostov city has been lost in the span of time. According to the archeologist Andrei Leontiev, who specializes in the history of the region, the Rostov land until the 10th century was already under control of Rostov city while Sarskoye Gorodishche was a tribal center of native Merya people.
In the 10th century an eparchy was established in Rostov. One of the first known princes was Yaroslav the Wise and later Boris Vladimirovich. At that time Rostov was the major center of the Eastern Orthodox Christianity in the region dominated mostly by shamanism. Until the 11th century Rostov was often associated with the Great Novgorod. Evidently the spread of Eastern Orthodox Christianity to the lands of the Great Perm was successfully conducted from Rostov. The regional capital was Rostov the Great, including other important towns included Suzdal, Yaroslavl, and Belozersk.
Rostov-Suzdal [ edit ] 
Vladimir Monomakh, son of the Grand Prince of Vsevolod I, inherited the rights to the principality in 1093. As the Grand Prince of Kiev he appointed his son George I the Long-Armed to rule the northeastern lands and in 1125 moved its capital from Rostov to Suzdal, after which the Principality was referred to as Rostov-Suzdal. [ 2 ] During the 11th and 12th centuries when southern parts of Rus' were systematically raided by Turkic nomads, their inhabitants began to migrate northward. In the formerly wooded areas, known as Zalesye, many new settlements were established. The foundations of Pereslavl, Kostroma, Dmitrov, Moscow, Yuriev-Polsky, Uglich, Tver, Dubna, and many others were assigned (either by chronicle or popular legend) to GeorgeI, whose sobriquet alludes to his dexterity in manipulating the politics of far-away Kiev. Sometime in 1108 Monomakh strengthened and rebuilt the town of Vladimir on the Klyazma River, 31km south of Suzdal. During the rule of George I the Long-Armed the principality gained military strength and in the Suzdal-Ryazan war of 1146 conquered the Ryazan Principality. Later in 1150s Yuri occupied Kiev a couple of times as well. From that time the lands of the northeastern Rus' played an important role in the politics of Kievan Rus'.
Rise of Vladimir [ edit ] 
Assumption Cathedral in Vladimir was built in 1158a1160 and functioned as the mother church of Kievan Rus' in the 13th century. 
George's son Andrew the Pious significantly increased Vladimir's power at the expense of the nearby princely states, which he treated with contempt. After burning down Kiev, then the metropolitan seat of Rus', in 1169, he enthroned his younger brother. For Andrew, his capital of Vladimir was a far greater concern, as he embellished it with white stone churches and monasteries. Prince Andrew was murdered by boyars in his suburban residence at Bogolyubovo in 1174.
After a brief interregnum, Andrew's brother Vsevolod III secured the throne. He continued most of his brother's policies and once again subjugated Kiev in 1203. Vsevolod's chief enemies, however, were the Southern Ryazan Principality, which appeared to stir discord in the princely family, and the mighty Turkic state of Volga Bulgaria, which bordered Vladimir-Suzdal to the east. After several military campaigns, Ryazan was burnt to the ground, and the Bulgars were forced to pay tribute.
Vsevolod's death in 1212 precipitated a serious dynastic conflict. His eldest son Konstantin gained the support of powerful Rostovan boyars and Mstislav the Bold of Kiev and expelled the lawful heir, his brother George, from Vladimir to Rostov. George managed to return to the capital six years later, upon Konstantin's death. George proved to be a shrewd ruler who decisively defeated Volga Bulgaria and installed his brother Yaroslav in Novgorod. His reign, however, ended when the Mongol hordes under Batu Khan took and burnt Vladimir in 1238. Thereupon they proceeded to devastate other major cities of Vladimir-Suzdal during the Mongol invasion of Kievan Rus'.
Mongol yoke [ edit ] 
None of the cities of the principality managed to regain the power of the Great Kievan Rus' after the Mongol invasion. Vladimir became a vassal of the Mongol Empire, later succeeded by the Golden Horde, with the Grand Prince appointed by the Great Khan. Even the popular Alexander Nevsky of Pereslavl had to go to the Khan's capital in Karakorum in order to be installed as the Grand Prince in Vladimir. As many factions strove for power, the principality rapidly disintegrated into eleven tiny states: Moscow, Tver, Pereslavl, Rostov, Yaroslavl, Uglich, Belozersk, Kostroma, Nizhny Novgorod, Starodub-upon-Klyazma, and Yuriev-Polsky. All of them nominally acknowledged the suzerainty of the Grand Prince of Vladimir, but his effective authority became progressively weaker.
By the end of the century, only three cities a Moscow, Tver, and Nizhny Novgorod a still contended for the title of Grand Prince of Vladimir, however, once installed, they chose to remain in their own cities rather than moving to Vladimir. The Grand Duchy of Moscow gradually came to eclipse its rivals. When the metropolitan of Kievan Rus' moved his chair from Vladimir to Moscow in 1325, it became clear that Moscow had effectively succeeded Vladimir as the chief centre of power in the north-east remnant of Kievan Rus'.
Further reading [ edit ] 
William Craft Brumfield. A History of Russian Architecture (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1993) ISBN 978-0-521-40333-7 (Chapter Three: "Vladimir and Suzdal Before the Mongol Invasion"), . 
See also [ edit ] 
Zalesye, List of early East Slavic states, ru:DDDNDD DDNDDD DDDDDDDNNDDN, Darughachi, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ "RUSSIA, Slavic Languages, Orthodox Calendar, Russian Battleships". Friesian.com . Retrieved 2013-07-28 . "The word in Russian is Knyaz which is different from the word borrowed from German for "duke", gertsog (i.e. herzog ), and from Latin for "prince", prints . The problem seems to be that in modern times a brother of the Tsar was always a Velikii Knyaz and this was translated "Grand Duke" by analogy to the tradition of giving the title Duke to the brothers of the Kings of England and France. This ambiguity exists in other regional languages, where either "prince" or "duke" can also translate knAze in Czech, knez in Croatian, ksiaze in Polish, knieza in Slovakian, kunigaikshtis in Lithuanian, and voivode in Hungarian." , ^ Yury Dolgoruky in Grand Soviet Encyclopedia , External links [ edit ] 
(Russian) History of Vladimir-Suzdal Principality in the Grand Soviet Encyclopedia, . 
v , t , e , . Principalities of Kievan Rus' , Main Principalities Chernigov, GaliciaaVolhynia, Novgorod Republic, Novgorod-Seversky, Pereyaslavl, Polotsk, Kiev , Rostov-Suzdal (Vladimir-Suzdal) , Ryazan, Smolensk, Tmutarakan, Turov-Pinsk, . , Other Principalities Drutsk, Halych, Jersika, Koknese, Minsk, Slutsk, Terebovlia, Trubetsk, Vitebsk, Volhynia, Zaslawye, . , v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal , Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain, Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Vladimir-Suzdal and oldid=629226237" Categories: Former principalities, Former countries in Europe, States and territories established in 1157, States and territories disestablished in the 1330s, Vladimir-Suzdal, Former monarchies of Europe, Vladimir Oblast, Former Slavic countries, . Hidden categories: Pages using duplicate arguments in template calls, Former country articles requiring maintenance, Articles containing Russian-language text, Articles with Russian-language external links, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, AzErbaycanca, DDDDNNNDDN, DNDDDNNDD, CatalA, DODDNDD, AeAtina, Dansk, Deutsch, Eesti, EspaAol, Euskara, FranAais, Galego, Hrvatski, Ido, Bahasa Indonesia, Italiano, aaaaaaa, LatvieAu, LietuviA, DDDDDDDNDD, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Polski, PortuguAs, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, SlovenAina, SlovenAAina, DNDNDD / srpski, Srpskohrvatski / NNDNDDNNDDNNDD, Suomi, Svenska, aaa, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 11 October 2014 at 21:50.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
