
West Siberian Plain - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
West Siberian Plain 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search Western Siberian plain seen from the Trans-Siberian railway outside Tatarskaya Western Siberian plain on a satellite map of North Asia 
The West Siberian Plain , also known as Zapadno-sibirskaya Ravnina , (Russian: DDIDDDDD-DDDDINNDDN NDDDDIDD ) is a large plain that occupies the western portion of Siberia, between the Ural Mountains in the west and the Yenisei River in the east, and by the Altay Mountains on the southeast. Much of the plain is poorly drained and consists of some of the world's largest swamps and floodplains. Important cities include Omsk, Novosibirsk and Chelyabinsk.
Contents
1 Geography , 2 Geology , 3 See also , 4 References , 5 External links , . 
Geography [ edit ] 
West Siberian Plain is located east of Ural Mountains mostly in the territory of Russia. It covers an area of more than 975, 000 sq.mi. It has been described as the world's largest unbroken lowlandamore than 50 percent is less than 330 feet (100 m) above sea level [ 1 ] aand covers an area of about 2.6a2.7 millionkmA which is about one third of Siberia, [ 2 ] extending from north to south for 1490mi (2, 400km), from the Arctic Ocean to the foothills of the Altay Mountains, and from west to east for 1, 180mi (1, 900km) from the Yenisei River to the Ural Mountains.
The plain has eight distinct vegetation regions: tundra, forest-tundra, northern taiga, middle taiga, southern taiga, sub-taiga forest, forest-steppe, and steppe. The number of animal species in the West Siberian Plain ranges from at least 107 in the tundra to 278 or more in the forest-steppe region. The long Yenisey river flows broadly south to north, a distance of 2, 195mi., where it completes its journey, discharging more than 5 million gallons of water per second. Together with its tributary Angara, the two rivers flow 3, 435mi. The valley it has formed acts as a rough dividing line between the West Siberian Plain and the Central Siberian Plateau. Glacial deposits extend as far south as the Ob-Irtysh confluence, forming occasional low hills and ridges, but otherwise the plain is exceedingly flat and featureless.
Winters on the West Siberian Plain are harsh and long. The climate of most of the plains is either subarctic or continental. Two of the larger cities on the plain [ clarification needed ] are Surgut and Nizhnevartovsk.
Geology [ edit ] 
The West Siberian Plain consists mostly of Cenozoic alluvial deposits and is extraordinarily flat. A rise of fifty metres in sea level would cause all land between the Arctic Ocean and Novosibirsk to be inundated (see also Turgai Straits, West Siberian Glacial Lake). It is a region of the Earth's crust that has undergone prolonged subsidence and is composed of horizontal deposits from as much as 65, 000, 000 years ago. Many of the deposits on this plain result from ice dams; having reversed the flow of the Ob and Yenisei Rivers, redirecting them into the Caspian Sea, and perhaps the Aral Sea as well. It is very swampy and soils are mostly peaty Histosols and, in the treeless northern part, Histels.
It is one of the world's largest areas of peatlands, which are characterized by raised bogs. It is believed that Vasyugan Swamp is the worldas largest single raised bog, covering approximately 20, 309miA (51, 600kmA).
In the south of the plain, where permafrost is largely absent, rich grasslands that are an extension of the Kazakh Steppe formed the original vegetation (almost all cleared now).
Large regions of the plains are flooded in the spring, and marshlands make much of the area unsuitable for agriculture. The principal rivers in the West Siberian Plain are the Ob, Irtysh, and Yenisei. There are many lakes and swamps, as well as large petroleum and natural gas reserves. Most of Russia's oil and gas production was extracted from this area during the 1970s and 80s. [ 2 ] 
See also [ edit ] 
West Siberian petroleum basin, East European Plain, the other major plain of Russia, Eurasian steppe, . 
References [ edit ] 
^ "Russia". EncyclopAdia Britannica . Retrieved 2006-10-24 . , ^ a b "Western Siberian Plain". Columbia Encyclopedia . Retrieved 2006-10-24 . , External links [ edit ] 
NASA Images: West Siberian Plain, Topography and Drainage of Russia, Peatlands of the World: Russia a Siberia, . 
v , t , e , . Russiatopics , History 
Timeline Proto-Indo-Europeans, Scythians, East Slavs, Rus' Khaganate, Kievan Rus', Novgorod Republic, Vladimir-Suzdal, Grand Duchy of Moscow, Tsardom of Russia, Russian Empire, Russian Republic, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, Russian Federation, . , By topic Economy, Military, Postal, . , Geography 
Subdivisions, Borders, Geology, European Russia, Caucasus Mountains, North Caucasus, Caspian Sea, Ural Mountains, West Siberian Plain , Siberia, North Asia, Extreme points, Cities and towns, Islands, Lakes, Rivers, Volcanoes, Climate, . , Politics 
Conscription, Constitution, Elections, Federal budget, Foreign relations, Freedom of assembly, Freedom of press, Government, Human rights, Judiciary, Law, Civil Service, Law enforcement (Prisons), Liberalism, Military, Opposition, Political parties, President of the Russian Federation, . , Economy 
Agriculture, Aircraft industry, Car industry, Banking, Central Bank, Corruption, Defence industry, Economic regions, Energy, Fishing industry, Forestry, Gambling, Labour law, Mining, Petroleum industry, Russian ruble, Russian oligarchs, Space industry, Shipbuilding, Trade unions, Taxation, Tourism, Transport, Telecommunications, Waste, . , Society 
Demographics, Russian citizens, Abortion, Alcoholism, Crime, Education, Healthcare, Ethnic groups, Languages, Illegal immigration, Prostitution, Racism, Religion, Suicide, Water supply and sanitation, . , Culture Architecture, Art, Literature, Ballet, Cinema, Graffiti, Inventions, Media, Music, Public holidays, Radio, Opera, Language, Cuisine, Martial arts, Folklore, Television, Internet, National anthem, Coat of arms, National flag, Sports, . , Outline, . Book, Category, Portal, WikiProject, . , v , t , e , . Subfields of physical geography , Biogeography, Climatology / Paleoclimatology, Coastal geography, Edaphology, Geomorphology, Glaciology, Hydrology / Hydrography, Landscape ecology, Limnology, Meteorology, Oceanography, Palaeogeography, Pedology/Soil science, Quaternary science, . , Coordinates: 62A00aN 76A00aE i / i 62.000AN 76.000AE i / 62.000; 76.000 
Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Siberian_Plain and oldid=627646573" Categories: Plains of Russia, Geography of Siberia, Eurasian Steppe, Forests of Russia, Grasslands of Russia, Geography of Chelyabinsk Oblast, Geography of Novosibirsk Oblast, Geography of Omsk Oblast, Siberian Federal District, Physiographic divisions, Tundra, Taiga and boreal forests, Temperate coniferous forests, Temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands, Siberia, . Hidden categories: Articles containing Russian-language text, Wikipedia articles needing clarification from September 2010, Coordinates on Wikidata, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
OUOOOUO, AzErbaycanca, DDDDNNNDDN, DDDDNNNDDN (NDNDNDDDNND)a, CatalA, DODDNDD, AeAtina, Cymraeg, Dansk, Deutsch, Eesti, EspaAol, Esperanto, Euskara, FranAais, iei, Hrvatski, Italiano, aaaaaaa, ODDDOND, LatvieAu, LietuviA, Nederlands, aeaee, Norsk bokmAl, Norsk nynorsk, Polski, RomAnA, DNNNDDD, SlovenAina, DNDNDD / srpski, Suomi, DDNDNND/tatarAa, TArkAe, DDNDNDNNDD, Tiang Viat, aeae, . Edit links This page was last modified on 30 September 2014 at 06:45.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
