
Yegor Borisov - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Yegor Borisov 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search 
, This biographical article needs additional citations for verification . Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately , especially if potentially libelous or harmful. (March 2012) , Yegor Borisov
DDDN DNDDDNNDDDN DDNDNDD , 3rd Head of the Sakha Republic Preceded by Vyacheslav Shtyrov, Personal details Born ( 1954-08-15 ) August 15, 1954 (age60) 
Churapchinsky District, Yakut ASSR RSFSR, USSR, Political party United Russia, Spouse(s) Praskovya Borisova, Profession Mechanical Engineer, Religion Eastern Orthodoxy, Signature , Yegor Afanasyevich Borisov (Sakha: DNODOON DDDDDDDN NDDND DDNNNODD ; Russian: DDDN DNDDDNNDDDN DDNDNDD ) (born August 15, 1954) is a Russian politician of Yakut ethnicity, who is serving as the Head of the Sakha Republic, a federal subject of Russia. [ 1 ] He took office on May 31, 2010 after Vyacheslav Shtyrov left office. On 24 April 2014, President Putin accepted Mr Borisovas request to step down from his post and agreed to end his mandate ahead of term. Mr Putin simultaneously appointed Mr Borisov to be Acting President of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) until an elected president takes office. [ 2 ] He was previously prime minister of the Sakha Republic.
Contents
1 Biography , 2 Personal Life , 3 References , 4 External links , . 
Biography [ edit ] 
Borisov was born in Churapchinsky District, on 15 August 1954 to ethnic Yakut parents, to a family of 8 children. His father, Afanasiya Borisov, worked as a poor farmer and mechanic, and struggled financially through Soviet times, while his mother, Praskovya Borisova, worked as a Nurse in Kindergarten school. When Borisov was 12, he said that his father took him hunting in the Taba area, located approximately in 20 kilometers to the west of Churapchinsky District. His father died of natural causes at the age of 41. From 1971, Borisov joined as a worker at Agricultural Equipment shop to help him survive financially. From early childhood, Borisov was attracted to engineering, and eventually studied engineering at university, graduating with a Bachelors in Mechanical Engineering in 1979. Upon graduation from university, Borisov became the head of the shop he worked in, and ended up joining the Communist Party, where he then became the Deputy Chief of Churapchchinsky Regional Administration of Agriculture. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, Borisov joined the politics of Yakutia, where he worked as the Republic's Prime Minister before he became president.
Personal Life [ edit ] 
Borisov is married to Praskovya Petrovna, and they have two daughters. Both of Borisov's daughters graduated from Yakutsk State University. One of his daughters is an economist and the other one is a psychologist. Borisov loves hunting and fishing, and martial arts. He also likes reading historical literature and is a fan of the music of the Sakha Republic.
References [ edit ] 
^ "Yegor Borisov, Official site of Head of the Sakha Republic" . Retrieved 4 October 2014 . , ^ . The Kremlin http://eng.kremlin.ru/news/7082. first1= missing last1= in Authors list (help); Missing or empty title= (help) , External links [ edit ] 
Official website of the government of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) (Russian) , Official website (Russian) , . 
Precededby
Vyacheslav Shtyrov , Head of the Sakha Republic 
2010apresent, Incumbent , Persondata Name, Borisov, Yegor, Alternative names, Short description, Russian politician, Date of birth, August 15, 1954, Place of birth, Churapchinsky District, Yakut ASSR RSFSR, USSR, Date of death, Place of death, Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Yegor_Borisov and oldid=628234055" Categories: Eastern Orthodox Christians from Russia, Presidents of the Sakha Republic, Living people, 1954 births, Turkic Christians, United Russia politicians, Yakut people, . Hidden categories: CS1 errors: missing author or editor, Pages with citations lacking titles, Pages with citations having bare URLs, Use dmy dates from December 2013, BLP articles lacking sources from March 2012, Articles containing Yakut-language text, Articles containing Russian-language text, Articles with Russian-language external links, . 
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account, Log in, . 
Namespaces
Article , Talk , . 
Variants 
. 
Views
Read , Edit , View history , . 
More 
. 
Search 
Navigation
Main page, Contents, Featured content, Current events, Random article, Donate to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Shop, . 
Interaction
Help, About Wikipedia, Community portal, Recent changes, Contact page, . 
Tools
What links here, Related changes, Upload file, Special pages, Permanent link, Page information, Wikidata item, Cite this page, . 
Print/export
Create a book, Download as PDF, Printable version, . 
Languages
aeaee, DNNNDDD, DDND NNDD, Suomi, . Edit links This page was last modified on 4 October 2014 at 17:59.
, Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaA is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization., . Privacy policy, About Wikipedia, Disclaimers, Contact Wikipedia, Developers, Mobile view, . , . 
